{info:title=Источник}
Сгенерировано из: {{docs/anthropic-vacancies/hermes-comparison/13-reprioritization.md}}
Дата: 2026-04-29
{info}

h1. Переприоритизация: что Hermes покрывает / не покрывает / synergy

{quote}[!TIP]{quote}
{quote}Документ содержит практические рекомендации и лучшие практики.{quote}




{quote}> Источник: MHTML‑снимок {{Вакансии в Anthropic по кластерам - Claude}} (корень репозитория). Раздел диалога — сравнение собственной архитектуры (InGit + Cowork + Nautilus) с Hermes Agent от Nous Resear{quote}

----





{quote}Источник: MHTML‑снимок {{Вакансии в Anthropic по кластерам - Claude}} (корень репозитория). Раздел диалога — сравнение собственной архитектуры (InGit + Cowork + Nautilus) с Hermes Agent от Nous Research.{quote}

Domain-specific specialization (наша central contribution): Hermes provides general agent; кто-то нужен для строить SGB-specific, medical-specific, education-specific skills и configurations. Documents 5, 6, 7 specify how.

Institutional framework (OKWF): не addressed by Hermes. Наш Document 4 fills this gap.

Federation (Nautilus): not addressed by Hermes. Naval Document 1 fills this gap.

Vulnerable populations focus (Representative Agents): not Hermes's emphasis. Document 5 fills this gap.

Что нужно reconsider:

InGit's positioning: возможно, less InGit-specific MCP server, больше general structured workspace conventions which work с Hermes, Cowork, и других agents.

MCP servers для domain expertise становится более important. Эти portable между Hermes, Cowork, Claude Code, любых MCP-compliant agents. Это где наши Composite Skills Agent specifications matter.

Stop trying to build the agent layer. Hermes и Cowork (и multiple others coming) covered это. Focus на what's still missing: domain expertise, institutional architecture, federation.

Конкретные impact на проект

Если бы я сейчас пере-приоритизировал:

Низкий приоритет (Hermes/Cowork covers это):

Persistent memory infrastructure

Multi-platform reach

Skill creation framework

Agent orchestration

Computer use capability

Высокий приоритет (Hermes/Cowork doesn't cover):

SGB-specific MCP servers (Composite Skills sub-agents)

Pattern Library architecture (Document 1's Nautilus)

OKWF institutional design (Document 4)

Representative Agent-specific governance (Document 5)

Cross-practitioner federation (Document 1's Portal Protocol)

Audit infrastructure для regulated domains

Средний приоритет (synergy possible):

InGit structured workspace conventions

Migration tools между systems

Documentation для bridging Hermes/Cowork users to domain-specific configurations

Практически: что делать сейчас

Учитывая Hermes existence:

Шаг 1: Попробовать Hermes lично. Установить на your Termux/Android setup. Это direct test of whether он лучше matches your workflow than Cowork.

Шаг 2: Compare honestly: Hermes vs Cowork в context vашей actual work. Какой serves better? Возможно both have complementary roles.

Шаг 3: Если Hermes serves better, переориентировать наши documents. Document 2.4 specifically about Cowork integration might need a parallel/replacement document about Hermes integration.

Шаг 4: Focus future development effort на domain-specific MCP servers. Эти работают с обоими Hermes и Cowork. Effort переносим.

Шаг 5: SGB Advocate Colleague pilot становится более concrete. Build SGB MCP server, test с Hermes (locally hosted, privacy-friendly для legal work), test с Cowork (если pilots allow). Pick whichever serves better.

Honest assessment of наших документов с учётом Hermes

Наши девять documents were written predominantly без awareness Hermes. Document 2.3 was explicitly inquiring about missing Layer B; Document 2.4 was about Cowork integration. Hermes was not in our consideration.

Это partial blind spot в нашей analysis. Нечестно было бы pretend, что documents fully accounted for current 2026 landscape.

Однако:

Documents 1, 3, 4, 5 в основном independent of specific agent platform. Their concepts apply regardless of whether Hermes, Cowork, or future agents implement them.

Documents 6, 7 specify architectural patterns which can be implemented in Hermes (через skills + sub-agents) or Cowork (через MCP servers + configurations). Patterns are platform-agnostic.

Documents 2.3, 2.4 are most affected by Hermes existence. They might need revision.

Если бы я писал serию сегодня with knowledge of Hermes, я бы написал additional document specifically about Hermes integration parallel to Document 2.4. Probably Document 2.5 or отдельный paper.

Один особенно важный insight

Hermes implements что-то очень similar to Composite Skills Agent pattern (Document 7), но without our architectural attention to disagreement surfacing, transparent attribution, and principal authority preservation.

Hermes self-improves agents. Skills get better automatically. This is impressive technically. Но questions Document 7 raised:

Когда sub-agents disagree, what does Hermes do?

Does Hermes surface disagreements or auto-resolve?

Does the principal see attribution когда multiple skills contribute?

Does self-improvement preserve principal authority over their work?

Hermes documentation не explicitly addresses these. Это legitimate concern для professional applications (юридическая, медицинская работа), где transparency и principal authority matter.

Это где наш Document 7 adds value, которая не replicated by Hermes. Architectural commitments matter, не just technical capability.

Заключение

Hermes Agent — это впечатляющий и серьёзный проект, который substantially overlaps с тем, что наши documents теоретизируют. В некоторых respects (working software, multi-platform, self-improving), Hermes уже ahead of our specifications.

Однако:

Domain-specific specializations

Institutional framework

Federated architecture

Vulnerable populations focus

Architectural commitments к principal authority

— все остаются distinct contributions наших documents.

Hermes доказывает, что agent infrastructure layer is rapidly maturing. Это actually good news для наших documents, потому что они не должны больше worry about building this layer. Focus shifts к what still needs to be built: domain expertise, institutional support, federation, governance.

Practical next step рекомендация: попробовать Hermes на ваш Termux setup. Compare с Cowork. Decide which serves your actual workflow better. Adjust documents accordingly.

Если хотите, я могу написать дополнительный документ specifically о Hermes — что-то вроде «Hermes Agent and the Open Knowledge Work Foundation Architecture» — который analyzes how наши seven applied documents could be implemented using Hermes infrastructure. Это могло бы быть Document 2.5 в серии. Но возможно лучше сначала experiment с Hermes practically, прежде чем writing more theory о нём.

Что скажете? Хотите ли сделать паузу, попробовать Hermes, потом возвращаться к documents с experience? Или продолжить теоретическую работу сейчас?

Du hast gesagt: https://github.

https://github.com/camel-ai/camel сравнить этого Агента нужно с Агентом Гермес надо сравнить



----

_Смотрите также:_
* [02-what-info-repos-contain|docs/anthropic-vacancies/nautilus-vs-camel/02-what-info-repos-contain.md]
* [08-implications-nautilus-okwf|docs/nautilus/ingit-cowork-en/08-implications-nautilus-okwf.md]
* [12-minuses-of-hermes|docs/anthropic-vacancies/hermes-comparison/12-minuses-of-hermes.md]
* [10-strategic-positioning|docs/nautilus/ingit-cowork-en/10-strategic-positioning.md]




----

_Похожие документы:_
* [02-what-info-repos-contain|docs/anthropic-vacancies/nautilus-vs-camel/02-what-info-repos-contain.md] (сходство 0.17)
* [04-what-to-take-from-info-repos|docs/anthropic-vacancies/nautilus-vs-camel/04-what-to-take-from-info-repos.md] (сходство 0.16)
* [08-implications-nautilus-okwf|docs/nautilus/ingit-cowork-en/08-implications-nautilus-okwf.md] (сходство 0.16)

