{info:title=Источник}
Сгенерировано из: {{docs/obsidian/anthropic-vacancies/nautilus-vs-camel/05-what-to-do-right-now.md}}
Дата: 2026-04-29
{info}

----
title: "Что я бы посоветовал делать прямо сейчас"
tags:
  * architecture
  * anthropic
  * anthropic-vacancies
date: 2026-04-29
----

h1. Что я бы посоветовал делать прямо сейчас

{quote}[!TIP]{quote}
{quote}Документ содержит практические рекомендации и лучшие практики.{quote}




{quote}> Источник: MHTML‑снимок {{Вакансии в Anthropic по кластерам - Claude}} (корень репозитория). Раздел диалога — анализ комбинирования пассивного Nautilus с активным CAMEL framework.{quote}

----





{quote}Источник: MHTML‑снимок {{Вакансии в Anthropic по кластерам - Claude}} (корень репозитория). Раздел диалога — анализ комбинирования пассивного Nautilus с активным CAMEL framework.{quote}

Что я бы посоветовал делать прямо сейчас

Если вы готовы commit к этому direction:

Шаг 1: Install CAMEL на ваш Termux setup. Try basic example. See if works on Android infrastructure.

Шаг 2: Create one specialized ChatAgent для specific narrow SGB task (например, validating that Widerspruch contains все required sections). Test in actual case work.

Шаг 3: Если useful, expand. Если нет, abandon and reconsider direction.

Шаг 4: After you have working primitives, write single retrospective document describing what worked. Это becomes new Document — grounded в empirical experience, not theoretical speculation.

Не: Не write Document 10 synthesizing info repositories until you have practical experience с CAMEL. Theoretical synthesis without grounding accumulates risk.

Возможный hybrid path forward

Интересная alternative — разделить роли между projects:

Nautilus: stays passive federation layer (что вы original designed)

CAMEL-based deployments: active execution (new development)

info repositories: stay as conceptual archives — repository ideas to draw from selectively

MCP servers: bridge interoperability layer

Каждый project keeps its essential character. None tries to do everything. Together they create ecosystem.

Это actually elegant solution. Each project has defined role. No project burdens itself с being everything.

Хотите, я могу:

Option A: Продолжить теоретическую дискуссию — например, sketching конкретные CAMEL configurations для SGB Advocate Colleague.

Option B: Pause theoretical work, recommend practical next step (try CAMEL на Termux), and pick up discussion после empirical experience.

Option C: Help write specific document или code prototype prepared для CAMEL implementation (например, system prompt templates, MCP server skeleton).

Что вам useful right now?



----

_Смотрите также:_
* [[04-what-to-take-from-info-repos]]
* [[03-sgb-advocate-colleague-example]]
* [[01-passive-vs-active-roles]]
* [[08-implications-nautilus-okwf]]




----

_Похожие документы:_
* [[04-what-to-take-from-info-repos]] (сходство 0.21)
* [[03-sgb-advocate-colleague-example]] (сходство 0.19)
* [[08-implications-nautilus-okwf]] (сходство 0.17)

