{info:title=Источник}
Сгенерировано из: {{docs/02-anthropic-vacancies/103-appendix-b-change-log.md}}
Дата: 2026-04-29
{info}

h1. Appendix B: Change Log


h2. Contents

* [Appendix B: Change Log|#appendix-b-change-log]
  * [v1.1.0-draft (2026-04-19)|#v110-draft-2026-04-19]
  * [v1.0.0-draft (2026-04 earlier)|#v100-draft-2026-04-earlier]



{quote}- _New_: Q6 as normative concept (section 8, ADR-002){quote}

----





h2. Appendix B: Change Log

h3. v1.1.0-draft (2026-04-19)

* _New_: Q6 as normative concept (section 8, ADR-002)
* _New_: Five onboarding paths formalized (section 12, ADR-003)
* _New_: REST API contract mandatory (section 13)
* _New_: SDK contract informative (section 14)
* _New_: MCP extension informative (section 16)
* _Changed_: {{is_fallback}} field added to [PortalEntry|../docs/02-anthropic-vacancies/01-интегральный-анализ-профиля-svend4.md] (normative)
* _Changed_: Consensus structure extended with {{coverage_with_fallback}}
* _Changed_: Passport schema formalized via {{passport_schema.json}}
* _Clarified_: Naming conventions (passport by format, not by repo)
* _Clarified_: Timeout RECOMMENDED 5 seconds (was 10)

h3. v1.0.0-draft (2026-04 earlier)

* Initial draft published

----



----

_Похожие документы:_
* [91-16-mcp-extension-informative|91-16-mcp-extension-informative.md] (сходство 0.13)
* [82-7-portalentry-structure|82-7-portalentry-structure.md] (сходство 0.11)
* [93-18-reference-implementation|93-18-reference-implementation.md] (сходство 0.10)




----

_Смотрите также:_
* [91-16-mcp-extension-informative|91-16-mcp-extension-informative.md]
* [22-10-queryresult-structure|22-10-queryresult-structure.md]
* [28-appendix-a-minimal-working-example|28-appendix-a-minimal-working-example.md]
* [93-18-reference-implementation|93-18-reference-implementation.md]


h2. Упоминается в

* [10. QueryResult Structure|22-10-queryresult-structure.md]
* [11. Relevance Ranking|86-11-relevance-ranking.md]
* [14. SDK Contract (Informative)|89-14-sdk-contract-informative.md]
* [16. MCP Extension (Informative)|91-16-mcp-extension-informative.md]
* [6. Adapter Interface|81-6-adapter-interface.md]
* [8. Q6 Space (Normative)|83-8-q6-space-normative.md]
* [Appendix C: References|104-appendix-c-references.md]
* [Вакансии Anthropic — Анализ по кластерам|README.md]
* [Доступные инструменты|128-доступные-инструменты.md]
h2. Упоминается в

* [Вакансии Anthropic — Анализ по кластерам|../README.md]


h2. Связанные документы

* [14. SDK Contract (Informative)|89-14-sdk-contract-informative.md] _29%_
* [Доступные инструменты|128-доступные-инструменты.md] _21%_
* [10. QueryResult Structure|22-10-queryresult-structure.md] _21%_
* [6. Adapter Interface|81-6-adapter-interface.md] _21%_
* [18. Reference Implementation|93-18-reference-implementation.md] _21%_
* [Appendix C: References|104-appendix-c-references.md] _17%_
h2. Связанные документы

* [Appendix C: References|104-appendix-c-references.md] _25%_
* [10. QueryResult Structure|22-10-queryresult-structure.md] _25%_
* [14. SDK Contract (Informative)|89-14-sdk-contract-informative.md] _25%_
* [16. MCP Extension (Informative)|91-16-mcp-extension-informative.md] _25%_
* [Доступные инструменты|128-доступные-инструменты.md] _21%_
* [Appendix B: Change Log|34-appendix-b-change-log.md] _21%_
* [6. Adapter Interface|81-6-adapter-interface.md] _21%_
* [8. Q6 Space (Normative)|83-8-q6-space-normative.md] _21%_
