{info:title=Источник}
Сгенерировано из: {{docs/02-anthropic-vacancies/147-references.md}}
Дата: 2026-04-29
{info}

h1. References


h2. Contents

* [References|#references]
  * [Foundational Sources|#foundational-sources]
  * [Multi-Agent Systems|#multi-agent-systems]
  * [Protocols and Federation|#protocols-and-federation]
  * [Human-AI Collaboration|#human-ai-collaboration]
  * [Related Architectures|#related-architectures]
  * [Pattern Libraries|#pattern-libraries]
  * [Primary Reference|#primary-reference]



{quote}- Conway, M. E. (1968). "How do committees invent?" _Datamation_.{quote}

----





h2. References

h3. Foundational Sources

* Conway, M. E. (1968). "How do committees invent?" _Datamation_.  
* Brooks, F. P. (1975). _The Mythical Man-Month_.  
* Raymond, E. S. (1999). _The Cathedral and the Bazaar_.  
* Weinberg, G. M. (1971). _The Psychology of Computer Programming_.  

h3. Multi-Agent Systems

* Wooldridge, M. (2009). _An Introduction to MultiAgent Systems_.  
* Russell, S., & Norvig, P. (2020). _Artificial Intelligence: A Modern Approach_, 4th ed.  
* Hong, S., et al. (2023). "MetaGPT: Meta Programming for A Multi-Agent Collaborative Framework". _arXiv:2308.00352_.  

h3. Protocols and Federation

* Fielding, R. T. (2000). "Architectural Styles and the Design of Network-based Software Architectures". UC Irvine dissertation.  
* W3C (2018). _ActivityPub_. W3C Recommendation.  
* Anthropic (2024). _Model Context Protocol Specification_.  

h3. Human-AI Collaboration

* Shneiderman, B. (2022). _Human-Centered AI_.  
* Amershi, S., et al. (2019). "Guidelines for Human-AI Interaction". _CHI '19_.  

h3. Related Architectures

* Chen, L., & Avizienis, A. (1978). "N-Version Programming: A Fault-Tolerance Approach". _FTCS-8_.  
* Berners-Lee, T. (2019). _Solid: Re-decentralizing the Web_.  

h3. Pattern Libraries

* Alexander, C. (1977). _A Pattern Language_.  
* Gamma, E., et al. (1994). _Design Patterns: Elements of Reusable Object-Oriented Software_.  

h3. Primary Reference

* svend4 (2026). _Nautilus Portal Protocol v1.1 Specification_. 
  [github.com/svend4/nautilus/blob/main/PORTAL-PROTOCOL.md|https://github.com/svend4/nautilus/blob/main/PORTAL-PROTOCOL.md]  
* svend4 (2026). _Review Methodology: Three-Phase Consolidation_. 
  [github.com/svend4/nautilus/blob/main/REVIEW_METHODOLOGY.md|https://github.com/svend4/nautilus/blob/main/REVIEW_METHODOLOGY.md]  

----



----

_Похожие документы:_
* [268-references|268-references.md] (сходство 0.12)
* [73-portal-protocol-md-v1-1|73-portal-protocol-md-v1-1.md] (сходство 0.12)
* [306-with-anthropic-s-cowork-platform|306-with-anthropic-s-cowork-platform.md] (сходство 0.11)




----

_Смотрите также:_
* [73-portal-protocol-md-v1-1|73-portal-protocol-md-v1-1.md]
* [320-references|320-references.md]
* [268-references|268-references.md]
* [338-ссылки|338-ссылки.md]


h2. Упоминается в

* [Вакансии Anthropic — Анализ по кластерам|../README.md]


h2. Связанные документы

* [Author & Contact|52-author-contact.md] _25%_
* [Appendix C: References|104-appendix-c-references.md] _21%_
* [3. Three Inter-Layer Protocols|140-3-three-inter-layer-protocols.md] _21%_
* [Appendix A: Glossary|148-appendix-a-glossary.md] _21%_
* [AI-Coordinated Infrastructure for Distributed Expert Contribution|152-ai-coordinated-infrastructure-for-distributed-expe.md] _21%_
* [References|183-references.md] _21%_
* [References|225-references.md] _21%_
* [13. Reference Implementation|25-13-reference-implementation.md] _21%_
