{info:title=Источник}
Сгенерировано из: {{docs/02-anthropic-vacancies/148-appendix-a-glossary.md}}
Дата: 2026-04-29
{info}

h1. Appendix A: Glossary

{quote}[!TIP]{quote}
{quote}Документ содержит практические рекомендации и лучшие практики.{quote}




{quote}- _Double-Triangle Architecture_: The topology where each{quote}

----





h2. Appendix A: Glossary

* _Double-Triangle Architecture_: The topology where each 
  human knowledge worker simultaneously occupies conductor role 
  in a lower triangle of AI assistants and performer role in an 
  upper triangle coordinated by meta-agents.

* _Lower triangle_: Individual human + personal AI assistants.

* _Upper triangle_: Meta-agent + multiple human participants.

* _Node_: A human participant in the architecture.

* _Meta-agent_: An AI (or AI-augmented human) coordinating 
  multiple Nodes.

* _Assistant_: An AI working under a specific Node's 
  direction in their lower triangle.

* _Star of David topology_: The six-pointed figure formed by 
  superimposing the upper and lower triangles around the shared 
  Node vertex.

* _Protocol 1_: Downward communication within lower triangle 
  (Node to Assistants).

* _Protocol 2_: Downward communication within upper triangle 
  (Meta-agent to Nodes).

* _Protocol 3_: Cross-triangle negotiation (Assistant-to-Meta 
  via Node).

* _Pattern library_: Two-tier knowledge structure with public 
  abstract patterns and private concrete instances.

* _Inheritance bridge_: Link from private instance to public 
  pattern.

* _Contribution bridge_: Anonymized link from private instance 
  back to public pattern library.

* _Star(n)_: n-th level of fractal hierarchy.

* _NPP_: Nautilus Portal Protocol.

* _Three-phase review_: Methodology for parallel AI-agent 
  review with subsequent consolidation.

----



----

_Похожие документы:_
* [139-2-the-double-triangle-architecture|139-2-the-double-triangle-architecture.md] (сходство 0.19)
* [136-abstract|136-abstract.md] (сходство 0.17)
* [142-5-pattern-library-as-bridge-between-triangles|142-5-pattern-library-as-bridge-between-triangles.md] (сходство 0.17)




----

_Смотрите также:_
* [146-acknowledgments|146-acknowledgments.md]
* [139-2-the-double-triangle-architecture|139-2-the-double-triangle-architecture.md]
* [142-5-pattern-library-as-bridge-between-triangles|142-5-pattern-library-as-bridge-between-triangles.md]
* [136-abstract|136-abstract.md]


h2. Упоминается в

* [Вакансии Anthropic — Анализ по кластерам|../README.md]


h2. Связанные документы

* [5. Pattern Library as Bridge Between Triangles|142-5-pattern-library-as-bridge-between-triangles.md] _37%_
* [6. Four Deployment Domains|143-6-four-deployment-domains.md] _37%_
* [2. The Double-Triangle Architecture|139-2-the-double-triangle-architecture.md] _33%_
* [3. Three Inter-Layer Protocols|140-3-three-inter-layer-protocols.md] _33%_
* [4. Nautilus Portal as Reference Substrate|141-4-nautilus-portal-as-reference-substrate.md] _29%_
* [7. Open Questions|144-7-open-questions.md] _29%_
* [9. Integration with OKWF Infrastructure|262-9-integration-with-okwf-infrastructure.md] _25%_
* [THE DOUBLE-TRIANGLE ARCHITECTURE.md|134-the-double-triangle-architecture-md.md] _21%_
