{info:title=Источник}
Сгенерировано из: {{docs/02-anthropic-vacancies/149-appendix-b-summary-of-contributions.md}}
Дата: 2026-04-29
{info}

h1. Appendix B: Summary of Contributions


{quote}1. _Topological formalization_ of Double-Triangle Architecture{quote}

----





h2. Appendix B: Summary of Contributions

1. _Topological formalization_ of Double-Triangle Architecture 
   with Star of David metaphor
2. _Six architectural invariants_ constraining valid 
   implementations
3. _Three inter-layer protocols_ specification (only Protocols 
   1 and 2 are currently partially implemented; Protocol 3 is 
   novel)
4. _Fractal scaling property_ via Star(n) recursive construction
5. _Nautilus Portal Protocol v1.1 reference substrate_ with 
   documented gaps requiring three specific extensions
6. _Pattern library architecture_ as coherence mechanism across 
   triangles, including three bridge types
7. _Four domain deployments_ analyzed with specific 
   applicability notes
8. _Six open research questions_ with framing and suggested 
   approaches
9. _Empirical case study_ (reference implementation at 4-month 
   maturity)
10. _Multi-stakeholder call to action_ addressing researchers, 
    practitioners, founders, policymakers, and the author 
    personally

----

h1. Author & Contact

h2. Author & Contact
Кто поддерживает, как связаться.



----

_Похожие документы:_
* [137-table-of-contents|137-table-of-contents.md] (сходство 0.24)
* [136-abstract|136-abstract.md] (сходство 0.15)
* [355-существующие-документы-dhlab-твой-context|355-существующие-документы-dhlab-твой-context.md] (сходство 0.12)




----

_Смотрите также:_
* [137-table-of-contents|137-table-of-contents.md]
* [136-abstract|136-abstract.md]
* [355-существующие-документы-dhlab-твой-context|355-существующие-документы-dhlab-твой-context.md]
* [211-table-of-contents|211-table-of-contents.md]


h2. Упоминается в

* [Appendix B: Comparison Matrix|322-appendix-b-comparison-matrix.md]
* [Table of Contents|137-table-of-contents.md]
* [Table of Contents|169-table-of-contents.md]
* [Вакансии Anthropic — Анализ по кластерам|README.md]
* [Содержание|326-содержание.md]
* [Что ты МОЖЕШЬ делать|351-что-ты-можешь-делать.md]
* [Что ты НЕ МОЖЕШЬ делать без Max approval|352-что-ты-не-можешь-делать-без-max-approval.md]
h2. Упоминается в

* [Вакансии Anthropic — Анализ по кластерам|../README.md]


h2. Связанные документы

* [Table of Contents|169-table-of-contents.md] _25%_
* [Содержание|326-содержание.md] _25%_
* [Abstract|136-abstract.md] _21%_
* [Table of Contents|137-table-of-contents.md] _17%_
* [1. Why Single-Triangle Models Are Incomplete|138-1-why-single-triangle-models-are-incomplete.md] _17%_
* [Table of Contents|154-table-of-contents.md] _17%_
* [Содержание|190-содержание.md] _17%_
* [Table of Contents|253-table-of-contents.md] _17%_
h2. Связанные документы

* [Table of Contents|137-table-of-contents.md] _33%_
* [Содержание|326-содержание.md] _29%_
* [Table of Contents|308-table-of-contents.md] _25%_
* [Table of Contents|154-table-of-contents.md] _21%_
* [Table of Contents|169-table-of-contents.md] _21%_
* [Содержание|190-содержание.md] _21%_
* [Table of Contents|211-table-of-contents.md] _21%_
* [Table of Contents|253-table-of-contents.md] _21%_
