{info:title=Источник}
Сгенерировано из: {{docs/02-anthropic-vacancies/156-2-target-populations.md}}
Дата: 2026-04-29
{info}

h1. 2. Target Populations


{quote}_Size estimate_: 500K+ in OECD countries with relevant skills{quote}

----


h2. Содержание

* [2. Target Populations|#2-target-populations]
  * [2.1. Retired Experts with Remaining Intellectual Capacity|#21-retired-experts-with-remaining-intellectual-capacity]
  * [2.2. Disabled Specialists with Modified Work Requirements|#22-disabled-specialists-with-modified-work-requirements]
  * [2.3. Career-Switchers with Non-Traditional Backgrounds|#23-career-switchers-with-non-traditional-backgrounds]
  * [2.4. Geographically Dispersed Skilled Workers|#24-geographically-dispersed-skilled-workers]
  * [2.5. Cross-Cutting Observations|#25-cross-cutting-observations]

----






h2. 2. Target Populations

h3. 2.1. Retired Experts with Remaining Intellectual Capacity

_Size estimate_: 500K+ in OECD countries with relevant skills 
for knowledge work.

_Characteristics_:
* Decades of domain expertise
* Reduced but significant work capacity (15-25 hours/week 
  typical)
* Modest income supplementation preferred over full salary
* Value meaning, mentorship, intellectual engagement
* Often excluded from tech roles due to age bias

_Unique value proposition from OKWF_:
* Dignified part-time engagement
* Mentorship opportunities for younger contributors
* AI assistance mitigating technical skill obsolescence
* Identity continuity with professional life

_Example use cases_:
* Retired German law professor contributing to legal pattern 
  library and junior legal writer mentorship
* Former medical researcher reviewing bioinformatics code
* Retired journalist leading science communication guild

h3. 2.2. Disabled Specialists with Modified Work Requirements

_Size estimate_: 5M+ in OECD countries with preserved 
intellectual capacity and specific support needs.

_Characteristics_:
* Technical expertise often comparable to non-disabled peers
* Variable daily capacity (good days and bad days)
* Need flexibility impossible in most full-time roles
* Often experience employment discrimination
* Frequently have direct relevant experience (e.g., disability 
  rights advocacy)

_Unique value proposition from OKWF_:
* Asynchronous work accommodating variable capacity
* No discrimination in selection (AI-assisted blind matching)
* Bringing disability-informed perspective to beneficial AI
* Direct expertise in accessibility research

_Example use cases_:
* Blind contributor working on screen reader AI improvements
* Chronic fatigue patient contributing health AI research 
  during good hours
* Person with Sozialgericht experience (like this document's 
  author) contributing to legal advocacy infrastructure

h3. 2.3. Career-Switchers with Non-Traditional Backgrounds

_Size estimate_: Difficult to quantify; substantial and 
growing.

_Characteristics_:
* Established expertise in non-CS domain (law, medicine, 
  education, humanities)
* Interest and aptitude for technical work
* Often mid-career with family responsibilities
* Credentials don't match AI company hiring criteria
* Self-taught technical skills through coursework, projects

_Unique value proposition from OKWF_:
* Recognition of transferable expertise
* Domain knowledge as differentiator, not disadvantage
* Graduated progression from advisory to technical roles
* Mentorship relationships with domain-specific AI teams

_Example use cases_:
* Lawyer contributing to legal AI alignment research
* Medical doctor reviewing medical AI safety
* Teacher designing educational AI curricula

h3. 2.4. Geographically Dispersed Skilled Workers

_Size estimate_: Millions globally outside US/UK/EU.

_Characteristics_:
* CS or technical skills comparable to hire-eligible peers
* Cannot relocate due to family, legal, or preference
* Existing platforms (Toptal, Upwork) treat them as commodities
* Legal/tax infrastructure burden makes direct hire impractical 
  for companies

_Unique value proposition from OKWF_:
* Foundation-handled compliance (single legal interface for 
  contributors globally)
* Persistent professional identity across engagements
* Reputation portable across clients
* Dignity-preserving rate structure

_Example use cases_:
* Senior engineer in Belarus contributing to AI safety research
* ML researcher in Argentina working on multilingual models
* Medical AI specialist in Kenya contributing to global health 
  AI

h3. 2.5. Cross-Cutting Observations

These four populations overlap substantially. A retired lawyer 
in Belarus with chronic illness fits all four categories. 
Traditional hiring infrastructure treats each constraint as 
individual disqualifier. OKWF treats each as attribute of a 
unique contributor whose combination of characteristics has value.

Estimated total addressable contributor pool: 10M+ globally. 
Active participant target in first three years: 5,000-10,000.

----



----

_Похожие документы:_
* [153-executive-summary|153-executive-summary.md] (сходство 0.17)
* [155-1-problem-statement|155-1-problem-statement.md] (сходство 0.16)
* [157-3-why-existing-solutions-fail|157-3-why-existing-solutions-fail.md] (сходство 0.16)




----

_Смотрите также:_
* [153-executive-summary|153-executive-summary.md]
* [155-1-problem-statement|155-1-problem-statement.md]
* [157-3-why-existing-solutions-fail|157-3-why-existing-solutions-fail.md]
* [164-10-appendices|164-10-appendices.md]


h2. Упоминается в

* [Вакансии Anthropic — Анализ по кластерам|../README.md]


h2. Связанные документы

* [Executive Summary|153-executive-summary.md] _21%_
* [1. Problem Statement|155-1-problem-statement.md] _21%_
* [Table of Contents|154-table-of-contents.md] _17%_
* [3. Why Existing Solutions Fail|157-3-why-existing-solutions-fail.md] _17%_
* [1. The Cinderella Syndrome: Why Quality Stays Invisible|170-1-the-cinderella-syndrome-why-quality-stays-invisi.md] _17%_
