{info:title=Источник}
Сгенерировано из: {{docs/02-anthropic-vacancies/164-10-appendices.md}}
Дата: 2026-04-29
{info}

h1. 10. Appendices


{quote}_Nautilus Portal Protocol v1.1_:{quote}

----


h2. Содержание

* [10. Appendices|#10-appendices]
  * [Appendix A: Comparison Matrix Against Existing Solutions|#appendix-a-comparison-matrix-against-existing-solutions]
  * [Appendix B: Reference Implementation Status|#appendix-b-reference-implementation-status]
  * [Appendix C: Founder Biography|#appendix-c-founder-biography]
  * [Appendix D: Specific Anchor Partnership Proposal to Anthropic|#appendix-d-specific-anchor-partnership-proposal-to-anthropic]
  * [Appendix E: Key Open Questions for Potential Partners|#appendix-e-key-open-questions-for-potential-partners]
  * [Appendix F: Document Metadata|#appendix-f-document-metadata]

----






h2. 10. Appendices

h3. Appendix A: Comparison Matrix Against Existing Solutions

|| Feature || OKWF || Deel || Upwork || Toptal || Mercor || OSS Foundations || Employment ||
|| Cross-border compliance || ✓ || ✓ || Partial || ✓ || ✓ || — || — ||
|| Part-time capacity support || ✓ || Partial || ✓ || Partial || Partial || ✓ || ✗ ||
|| Dignity preservation || ✓ || ✗ || ✗ || ✗ || ✗ || ✓ || ✓ ||
|| Community continuity || ✓ || ✗ || ✗ || Partial || ✗ || ✓ || ✓ ||
|| AI-assisted coordination || ✓ || ✗ || Partial || ✗ || ✓ || ✗ || ✗ ||
|| Pattern library || ✓ || ✗ || ✗ || ✗ || ✗ || Partial || ✗ ||
|| Guild structure || ✓ || ✗ || ✗ || ✗ || ✗ || Partial || Partial ||
|| Reputation portability || ✓ || ✗ || ✓ || ✓ || ✓ || ✓ || Partial ||
|| Mission alignment || ✓ || ✗ || ✗ || ✗ || ✗ || ✓ || Varies ||
|| Graduated progression || ✓ || ✗ || ✗ || ✗ || ✗ || ✓ || ✓ ||
|| Funded baseline stipend || ✓ || ✗ || ✗ || ✗ || ✗ || ✗ || ✓ ||

h3. Appendix B: Reference Implementation Status

_Nautilus Portal Protocol v1.1_:
* 6,782 LOC Python, 60 tests passing, 0 mypy errors
* 13 adapters, 7 repositories federated
* REST API, SDK, MCP integration, OpenAPI specification
* Docker deployment, CI/CD via GitHub Actions
* Documentation: README, STATUS, INTEGRATION, PORTAL-PROTOCOL 
  (15+ pages formal spec), REVIEW_METHODOLOGY, 
  DOUBLE-TRIANGLE-ARCHITECTURE (20 pages)
* License: CC BY 4.0 (docs), MIT (code)
* Location: {{github.com/svend4/nautilus}}

_Humanities Extension_ (in development):
* Draft specification and adapter designs
* Pilot contributions planned for legal writing guild
* Anonymization pipeline under design

_Development capacity for production infrastructure_:
* Technical substrate: 6-9 months with 2-3 dedicated engineers
* Compliance infrastructure: 4-6 months with specialized counsel
* Community infrastructure: 6-12 months with community designers

h3. Appendix C: Founder Biography

_Author_ (svend4) is a software architect and legal advocate 
based in Dresden, Germany, working on Sozialgericht proceedings 
(cases S 6 SO 58/26 ER and S 7 SO 99/25) involving 
Eingliederungshilfe, Persönliches Budget, and disability rights. 
Holds disability status (GdB 70, Pflegegrad 2-3). Multilingual 
(Russian, German, English).

Demonstrated capacity through 4-month development of Nautilus 
Portal Protocol and associated infrastructure (70+ repositories, 
production-grade reference implementation). Personal circumstance 
(disability, geographic constraints, active legal proceedings) 
makes author ideal type-specimen target contributor for OKWF, 
providing authentic credibility and mission alignment.

Author proposes serving as _founder_ but not necessarily 
_Executive Director_. Foundation leadership should be 
professionally selected with relevant experience; author will 
contribute as architectural visionary and early participant.

h3. Appendix D: Specific Anchor Partnership Proposal to Anthropic

_Target_: Anthropic Beneficial Deployments team

_Why Anthropic specifically_:
* Public Benefit Corporation structure aligns with foundation 
  mission
* Existing programs for beneficial deployments suggest appetite 
  for infrastructure investment
* 440+ open positions demonstrates scale of unmet demand
* Claude and Claude Code are natural infrastructure substrate
* Anthropic's values on safety, inclusion, beneficial AI map 
  directly to OKWF mission

_Proposed engagement structure_:
* 3-year commitment at €1-1.5M per year
* Governance board seat (1 of 7)
* Technical integration (Claude access for contributors at 
  sustainable rate)
* Staff mentorship for contributor community
* Co-authored case studies on outcomes

_Return on investment for Anthropic_:
* Talent pipeline that current hiring pipeline cannot reach
* Demonstrable alignment between stated values and operational 
  commitments
* Research insights on distributed AI-assisted work patterns
* Goodwill with disability, elder, and geographic diversity 
  populations
* Potential to influence policy on AI-assisted work models

_Timeline to formal proposal_:
* Initial outreach: next 30 days (author can draft warm 
  approach to Beneficial Deployments team lead)
* First exploratory conversation: within 60 days
* Formal proposal submission: within 120 days
* Decision target: 180-240 days

h3. Appendix E: Key Open Questions for Potential Partners

These questions await substantive input from partners:

1. What operational metrics matter most to your organization for 
   assessing OKWF's impact?

2. What constraints would your organization place on acceptable 
   foundational relationships (governance, branding, project 
   alignment)?

3. What existing initiatives in your organization might 
   complement OKWF rather than overlap?

4. What timeline for impact evidence aligns with your organization's 
   decision cycles?

5. What are explicit red-lines your organization has for 
   such partnerships?

Specific answers inform design refinements.

h3. Appendix F: Document Metadata

_Document status_: Working draft, seeking feedback
_Review version_: v1.0.0-draft
_Next planned revision_: v1.1-draft incorporating partner feedback
_Primary maintenance_: author (svend4)
_Contact for discussion_: [author's GitHub issues, email 
TBD for foundation launch]
_Public availability_: This document is CC BY 4.0; can be 
shared, cited, refined by anyone with attribution.

----



----

_Похожие документы:_
* [163-9-call-for-partnership|163-9-call-for-partnership.md] (сходство 0.17)
* [158-4-proposed-infrastructure|158-4-proposed-infrastructure.md] (сходство 0.16)
* [162-8-risk-analysis|162-8-risk-analysis.md] (сходство 0.16)




----

_Смотрите также:_
* [163-9-call-for-partnership|163-9-call-for-partnership.md]
* [143-6-four-deployment-domains|143-6-four-deployment-domains.md]
* [162-8-risk-analysis|162-8-risk-analysis.md]
* [158-4-proposed-infrastructure|158-4-proposed-infrastructure.md]


h2. Упоминается в

* [Вакансии Anthropic — Анализ по кластерам|../README.md]


h2. Связанные документы

* [Глоссарий понятий|../CONCEPTS.md] _25%_
* [PORTAL-PROTOCOL.md|03-portal-protocol-md.md] _21%_
* [0. Status of This Document|05-0-status-of-this-document.md] _21%_
* [9. Call for Partnership|163-9-call-for-partnership.md] _21%_
* [Practical Recommendations for the Current Project|284-practical-recommendations-for-the-current-project.md] _21%_
* [Appendix: Position in Series Visualization|288-appendix-position-in-series-visualization.md] _21%_
* [8. Implications for Nautilus and OKWF|316-8-implications-for-nautilus-and-okwf.md] _21%_
* [Author & Contact|42-author-contact.md] _21%_
