{info:title=Источник}
Сгенерировано из: {{docs/02-anthropic-vacancies/168-abstract.md}}
Дата: 2026-04-29
{info}

h1. Abstract


h2. Содержание

* [Abstract|#abstract]
* [Упоминается в|#упоминается-в]
* [Упоминается в|#упоминается-в]
* [Связанные документы|#связанные-документы]
* [Связанные документы|#связанные-документы]

----



{quote}_Абстракт_ (авто){quote}
>
{quote}🎯 _Проблема:_ Each category exhibits the same structural problem: gap between value created or held and capacity to make that value visible to relevant counterparties.{quote}
{quote}🔧 _Подход:_ We propose architectural specifications, ethical commitments, governance structures, and rollout pathways.{quote}
{quote}🏷️ _Ключевые слова:_ {{abstract}}, {{anthropic}}, {{vacancies}}, {{representative}}, {{closing}}, {{agent}}, {{architectural}}, {{architecture}}{quote}
>



{quote}We introduce the _Representative Agent Layer_ — an architectural{quote}

----





h2. Abstract

We introduce the _Representative Agent Layer_ — an architectural 
pattern in which AI systems serve as proactive representatives 
for individuals or groups who lack the capacity, resources, or 
inclination to represent themselves in attention markets. 
Building on the Double-Triangle Architecture and OKWF 
infrastructure proposals, we extend the concept of personal AI 
assistants from _work execution helpers_ to **market navigation 
advocates** that handle visibility, opportunity discovery, 
negotiation, and protection on behalf of their human principals.

We identify ten distinct categories of populations and contexts 
where Representative Agents have transformative potential, 
ranging from highly-qualified invisible experts (the original 
motivating case) to social workers managing welfare recipients, 
caregivers managing dependents, small business owners managing 
customer relations, and citizens navigating bureaucratic 
institutions. Each category exhibits the same structural 
problem: **gap between value created or held and capacity to 
make that value visible to relevant counterparties**.

We propose architectural specifications, ethical commitments, 
governance structures, and rollout pathways. We argue that 
Representative Agents constitute a **new category of AI 
infrastructure** distinct from existing personal assistants 
(which serve work execution) and multi-agent systems (which 
replace humans). This infrastructure is technically feasible 
today, economically viable through foundation models or 
shared-cost structures, and morally urgent given growing 
information asymmetries in modern attention economies.

This paper invites collaboration on architecture, deployments, 
and governance from researchers, practitioners, social 
service organizations, civil society, and policymakers.

----



----

_Похожие документы:_
* [210-abstract|210-abstract.md] (сходство 0.16)
* [223-12-closing|223-12-closing.md] (сходство 0.15)
* [252-abstract|252-abstract.md] (сходство 0.14)




----

_Смотрите также:_
* [210-abstract|210-abstract.md]
* [223-12-closing|223-12-closing.md]
* [252-abstract|252-abstract.md]
* [180-11-call-for-collaboration|180-11-call-for-collaboration.md]


h2. Упоминается в

* [1. The Cinderella Syndrome: Why Quality Stays Invisible|170-1-the-cinderella-syndrome-why-quality-stays-invisi.md]
* [11. Call for Collaboration|180-11-call-for-collaboration.md]
* [12. Closing|181-12-closing.md]
* [13. Closing|266-13-closing.md]
* [2. Historical Precedents: Agents as Civilizational Innovation|171-2-historical-precedents-agents-as-civilizational-i.md]
* [4. The Symbiotic Architecture|312-4-the-symbiotic-architecture.md]
* [5. Architectural Specification|174-5-architectural-specification.md]
* [A Practical Path to Layer B Through Symbiotic Integration|305-a-practical-path-to-layer-b-through-symbiotic-inte.md]
* [Abstract|210-abstract.md]
* [Abstract|307-abstract.md]
* [Acknowledgments|267-acknowledgments.md]
* [Closing|285-closing.md]
* [References|225-references.md]
* [The Recursive Insight|281-the-recursive-insight.md]
* [Why This Hasn't Been Built|278-why-this-hasn-t-been-built.md]
* [Вакансии Anthropic — Анализ по кластерам|README.md]
* [СЛОЙ ПРЕДСТАВИТЕЛЬСКИХ АГЕНТОВ.md|187-слой-представительских-агентов-md.md]
h2. Упоминается в

* [Вакансии Anthropic — Анализ по кластерам|../README.md]


h2. Связанные документы

* [A Practical Path to Layer B Through Symbiotic Integration|305-a-practical-path-to-layer-b-through-symbiotic-inte.md] _25%_
* [THE DOUBLE-TRIANGLE ARCHITECTURE.md|134-the-double-triangle-architecture-md.md] _21%_
* [5. Architectural Specification|174-5-architectural-specification.md] _21%_
* [СЛОЙ ПРЕДСТАВИТЕЛЬСКИХ АГЕНТОВ.md|187-слой-представительских-агентов-md.md] _21%_
* [Why This Hasn't Been Built|278-why-this-hasn-t-been-built.md] _21%_
* [СИСТЕМНЫЙ ПРОМПТ ДЛЯ LORENZO PROJECT|344-системный-промпт-для-lorenzo-project.md] _21%_
* [8. Call to Action|145-8-call-to-action.md] _17%_
* [REPRESENTATIVE AGENT LAYER.md|166-representative-agent-layer-md.md] _17%_
h2. Связанные документы

* [Abstract|210-abstract.md] _29%_
* [Acknowledgments|267-acknowledgments.md] _29%_
* [THE DOUBLE-TRIANGLE ARCHITECTURE.md|134-the-double-triangle-architecture-md.md] _25%_
* [REPRESENTATIVE AGENT LAYER.md|166-representative-agent-layer-md.md] _25%_
* [5. Architectural Specification|174-5-architectural-specification.md] _25%_
* [СЛОЙ ПРЕДСТАВИТЕЛЬСКИХ АГЕНТОВ.md|187-слой-представительских-агентов-md.md] _25%_
* [13. Closing|266-13-closing.md] _25%_
* [Why This Hasn't Been Built|278-why-this-hasn-t-been-built.md] _25%_
