{info:title=Источник}
Сгенерировано из: {{docs/02-anthropic-vacancies/172-3-what-makes-a-representative-agent.md}}
Дата: 2026-04-29
{info}

h1. 3. What Makes a Representative Agent


{quote}_Абстракт_ (авто){quote}
>
{quote}🎯 _Проблема:_ Adapting them to AI principals is a key research and design challenge addressed in Sections 6 and 7.{quote}
{quote}🔧 _Подход:_ Adapting them to AI principals is a key research and design challenge addressed in Sections 6 and 7.{quote}
{quote}🏷️ _Ключевые слова:_ {{agent}}, {{principal}}, {{representative}}, {{assistants}}, {{makes}}, {{relationship}}, {{current}}, {{function}}{quote}
>



{quote}A Representative Agent is distinct from existing AI categories.{quote}

----


h2. Содержание

* [3. What Makes a Representative Agent|#3-what-makes-a-representative-agent]
  * [3.1. Three-Layer Distinction|#31-three-layer-distinction]
  * [3.2. Five Core Functions|#32-five-core-functions]
  * [3.3. What Distinguishes from Generic Personal AI Assistants|#33-what-distinguishes-from-generic-personal-ai-assistants]
  * [3.4. The Principal-Agent Relationship|#34-the-principal-agent-relationship]

----






h2. 3. What Makes a Representative Agent

A Representative Agent is distinct from existing AI categories. 
We define it precisely.

h3. 3.1. Three-Layer Distinction

_Layer 1 — Personal AI Assistants_ (current state of art):  
Examples: Cursor, Claude Code, Copilot, ChatGPT.  
Function: Help user execute tasks they've decided to do.  
Direction: User → AI ("do this for me").  
Locus of agency: User.  
Goal: Productivity multiplication on chosen tasks.

_Layer 2 — Multi-Agent Systems_ (current research/prototype):  
Examples: MetaGPT, [AutoGen|../docs/02-anthropic-vacancies/01-интегральный-анализ-профиля-svend4.md], ChatDev, CrewAI.  
Function: AI agents collaborate among themselves to complete 
complex tasks.  
Direction: AI → AI.  
Locus of agency: System designer.  
Goal: Automation of multi-step processes.

_Layer 3 — Representative Agents_ (proposed):  
Examples: None in production yet.  
Function: AI proactively represents user in markets and 
relationships.  
Direction: AI → World on behalf of user.  
Locus of agency: User delegates strategically.  
Goal: Access to opportunities user cannot reach alone.

h3. 3.2. Five Core Functions

A Representative Agent performs five interlocking functions:

_Function 1 — Discovery._ Continuously monitors relevant 
domains for opportunities matching the principal's profile. 
This includes: job postings, project announcements, 
collaboration requests, grant calls, regulatory deadlines, 
relationship opportunities. Acts as a _proactive scout_.

_Function 2 — Curation._ Filters discovered opportunities 
against principal's actual fit, capacity, and preferences. 
Prevents principal from being overwhelmed. Surfaces only 
high-relevance opportunities. Acts as a _filter and ranker_.

_Function 3 — Presentation._ Crafts presentations of the 
principal to relevant counterparties. This includes: 
applications, profiles, introductions, proposals. Translates 
the principal's value into language counterparties understand. 
Acts as a _translator and advocate_.

_Function 4 — Negotiation._ Engages in initial conversations 
with counterparties on behalf of the principal. Handles 
clarification, basic terms, scheduling. Surfaces complex 
decisions to the principal for human judgment. Acts as a 
_buffer and intermediary_.

_Function 5 — Protection._ Identifies risks, scams, 
exploitation, mismatched commitments. Prevents the principal 
from harm or overextension. Acts as a **gatekeeper and 
guardian**.

h3. 3.3. What Distinguishes from Generic Personal AI Assistants

A Representative Agent has properties that current personal 
AI assistants do not:

_Persistent operation_: Runs continuously, not session-based. 
Monitoring opportunities is 24/7 work.

_External interaction_: Communicates with parties beyond 
the principal. Most current assistants only communicate 
with the user.

_Strategic autonomy_: Makes decisions about what to surface 
to user vs. handle independently. Current assistants execute 
explicit user requests.

_Long-term relationship modeling_: Maintains models of 
principal's career arc, evolving preferences, life context. 
Current assistants have limited memory.

_Adversarial awareness_: Operates in environments where 
other parties may have conflicting interests. Current 
assistants generally assume cooperative environments.

_Mission alignment_: Operates within explicit ethical and 
strategic framework set by principal. Current assistants 
optimize for engagement or task completion.

h3. 3.4. The Principal-Agent Relationship

Representative Agents introduce a classic **principal-agent 
relationship** familiar from economics, law, and political 
science. The principal (the human) delegates to the agent 
(the AI). Key questions:

* What is delegated? What remains with principal?
* What constrains agent behavior?
* How does principal monitor agent?
* What recourse if agent misbehaves?

These questions have well-developed answers in human 
principal-agent contexts. Adapting them to AI principals is 
a key research and design challenge addressed in Sections 6 
and 7.

----



----

_Похожие документы:_
* [174-5-architectural-specification|174-5-architectural-specification.md] (сходство 0.20)
* [212-1-the-five-type-typology-of-principal-side-agents|212-1-the-five-type-typology-of-principal-side-agents.md] (сходство 0.15)
* [213-2-what-makes-a-professional-colleague-agent|213-2-what-makes-a-professional-colleague-agent.md] (сходство 0.13)




----

_Смотрите также:_
* [174-5-architectural-specification|174-5-architectural-specification.md]
* [212-1-the-five-type-typology-of-principal-side-agents|212-1-the-five-type-typology-of-principal-side-agents.md]
* [213-2-what-makes-a-professional-colleague-agent|213-2-what-makes-a-professional-colleague-agent.md]
* [220-9-relationship-to-other-agent-types|220-9-relationship-to-other-agent-types.md]


h2. Упоминается в

* [1. The Five-Type Typology of Principal-Side Agents|212-1-the-five-type-typology-of-principal-side-agents.md]
* [10. Open Questions|179-10-open-questions.md]
* [2. Historical Precedents: Agents as Civilizational Innovation|171-2-historical-precedents-agents-as-civilizational-i.md]
* [2. What Makes a Professional Colleague Agent|213-2-what-makes-a-professional-colleague-agent.md]
* [5. Architectural Specification|174-5-architectural-specification.md]
* [5. Configuration: How Principals Build Their Ensembles|258-5-configuration-how-principals-build-their-ensembl.md]
* [6. Coordination and Disagreement Resolution|259-6-coordination-and-disagreement-resolution.md]
* [6. Ethical Framework|175-6-ethical-framework.md]
* [7. Governance and Oversight|176-7-governance-and-oversight.md]
* [9. Relationship to Other Agent Types|220-9-relationship-to-other-agent-types.md]
* [Table of Contents|211-table-of-contents.md]
* [Вакансии Anthropic — Анализ по кластерам|README.md]
h2. Упоминается в

* [Вакансии Anthropic — Анализ по кластерам|../README.md]


h2. Связанные документы

* [Table of Contents|211-table-of-contents.md] _29%_
* [1. The Five-Type Typology of Principal-Side Agents|212-1-the-five-type-typology-of-principal-side-agents.md] _29%_
* [2. What Makes a Professional Colleague Agent|213-2-what-makes-a-professional-colleague-agent.md] _29%_
* [9. Relationship to Other Agent Types|220-9-relationship-to-other-agent-types.md] _29%_
* [5. Architectural Specification|174-5-architectural-specification.md] _25%_
* [10. Open Questions|179-10-open-questions.md] _21%_
* [Abstract|210-abstract.md] _21%_
* [Appendix B: Decision Framework — When to Build Type 1 First|227-appendix-b-decision-framework-when-to-build-type-1.md] _21%_
h2. Связанные документы

* [2. What Makes a Professional Colleague Agent|213-2-what-makes-a-professional-colleague-agent.md] _33%_
* [9. Relationship to Other Agent Types|220-9-relationship-to-other-agent-types.md] _33%_
* [5. Architectural Specification|174-5-architectural-specification.md] _29%_
* [Table of Contents|211-table-of-contents.md] _29%_
* [1. The Five-Type Typology of Principal-Side Agents|212-1-the-five-type-typology-of-principal-side-agents.md] _29%_
* [10. Open Questions|179-10-open-questions.md] _25%_
* [6. Coordination and Disagreement Resolution|259-6-coordination-and-disagreement-resolution.md] _25%_
* [11. Open Questions|264-11-open-questions.md] _25%_
