{info:title=Источник}
Сгенерировано из: {{docs/02-anthropic-vacancies/177-8-risks-and-mitigations.md}}
Дата: 2026-04-29
{info}

h1. 8. Risks and Mitigations


h2. Содержание

* [Contents|#contents]
* [8. Risks and Mitigations|#8-risks-and-mitigations]
  * [8.1. Risk: Agency Capture|#81-risk-agency-capture]
  * [8.2. Risk: Adversarial Manipulation by Counterparties|#82-risk-adversarial-manipulation-by-counterparties]
  * [8.3. Risk: Principal Misunderstanding Agent Capability|#83-risk-principal-misunderstanding-agent-capability]
  * [8.4. Risk: Privacy Violations|#84-risk-privacy-violations]
  * [8.5. Risk: Inequitable Access|#85-risk-inequitable-access]
  * [8.6. Risk: Cultural and Linguistic Bias|#86-risk-cultural-and-linguistic-bias]
  * [8.7. Risk: Regulatory Backlash|#87-risk-regulatory-backlash]
  * [8.8. Risk: Atrophy of Direct Human Skills|#88-risk-atrophy-of-direct-human-skills]
* [Упоминается в|#упоминается-в]
* [Связанные документы|#связанные-документы]

----



h2. Contents

* [8. Risks and Mitigations|#8-risks-and-mitigations]
  * [8.1. Risk: Agency Capture|#81-risk-agency-capture]
  * [8.2. Risk: Adversarial Manipulation by Counterparties|#82-risk-adversarial-manipulation-by-counterparties]
  * [8.3. Risk: Principal Misunderstanding Agent Capability|#83-risk-principal-misunderstanding-agent-capability]
  * [8.4. Risk: Privacy Violations|#84-risk-privacy-violations]
  * [8.5. Risk: Inequitable Access|#85-risk-inequitable-access]
  * [8.6. Risk: Cultural and Linguistic Bias|#86-risk-cultural-and-linguistic-bias]
  * [8.7. Risk: Regulatory Backlash|#87-risk-regulatory-backlash]
  * [8.8. Risk: Atrophy of Direct Human Skills|#88-risk-atrophy-of-direct-human-skills]



{quote}We address eight categories of risk with specific mitigations.{quote}

----





h2. 8. Risks and Mitigations

We address eight categories of risk with specific mitigations.

h3. 8.1. Risk: Agency Capture

_Scenario_: Over time, agent decisions shape principal's 
preferences and behaviors, reducing principal's authentic 
agency.

_Mitigation_: 
* Periodic explicit review of agent influence
* Transparency about what agent has decided vs. surfaced
* User-controllable boundaries on agent autonomy
* Optional "fasting" periods where agent is paused

h3. 8.2. Risk: Adversarial Manipulation by Counterparties

_Scenario_: Sophisticated counterparties manipulate agent 
through prompt injection, deceptive communications, or 
other adversarial techniques.

_Mitigation_:
* Adversarial robustness testing as ongoing process
* Multi-model consensus for important decisions
* Clear escalation criteria when confidence is low
* Human review for high-stakes communications

h3. 8.3. Risk: Principal Misunderstanding Agent Capability

_Scenario_: Principal over-trusts agent and makes 
consequential decisions based on agent recommendations 
that exceed agent capability.

_Mitigation_:
* Explicit capability disclosure on agent setup
* Clear language about confidence levels
* Recommendations to consult human professional in 
  serious matters
* Onboarding education for new principals

h3. 8.4. Risk: Privacy Violations

_Scenario_: Principal's sensitive data exposed through 
agent operations, breach, or platform misuse.

_Mitigation_:
* Encryption at rest and in transit
* Granular access control
* Local-first deployment options (data stays on 
  principal's device when possible)
* Compliance with GDPR, HIPAA, and equivalent
* Independent security audits

h3. 8.5. Risk: Inequitable Access

_Scenario_: Representative Agents become available only 
to those who can afford them, increasing inequality 
rather than reducing it.

_Mitigation_:
* Foundation model with subsidized access
* Sliding scale based on principal income
* Free tier for vulnerable populations
* Open-source agent frameworks for self-deployment

h3. 8.6. Risk: Cultural and Linguistic Bias

_Scenario_: Agents work well for principals matching 
training data demographics, poorly for others.

_Mitigation_:
* Diverse training data
* Multi-language support beyond English
* Cultural context awareness
* Regular bias audits with diverse evaluator pools

h3. 8.7. Risk: Regulatory Backlash

_Scenario_: Mistakes early in deployment lead to 
restrictive regulation that prevents beneficial uses.

_Mitigation_:
* Conservative deployment strategy
* Proactive engagement with regulators
* Self-regulation standards adopted before mandate
* Clear documentation of safety measures

h3. 8.8. Risk: Atrophy of Direct Human Skills

_Scenario_: Reliance on agents causes principals to 
lose the social and negotiation skills they currently have.

_Mitigation_:
* Optional "training mode" where agent teaches rather 
  than executes
* Periodic skill review
* Encouragement of direct human contact when 
  appropriate
* Recognition that some atrophy is acceptable trade-off 
  for inclusion of those who never had the skills

----



----

_Похожие документы:_
* [217-6-risks-specific-to-this-category|217-6-risks-specific-to-this-category.md] (сходство 0.14)
* [179-10-open-questions|179-10-open-questions.md] (сходство 0.14)
* [174-5-architectural-specification|174-5-architectural-specification.md] (сходство 0.14)




----

_Смотрите также:_
* [179-10-open-questions|179-10-open-questions.md]
* [175-6-ethical-framework|175-6-ethical-framework.md]
* [217-6-risks-specific-to-this-category|217-6-risks-specific-to-this-category.md]
* [174-5-architectural-specification|174-5-architectural-specification.md]


h2. Упоминается в

* [Вакансии Anthropic — Анализ по кластерам|../README.md]


h2. Связанные документы

* [10. Risks Specific to Composite Architectures|263-10-risks-specific-to-composite-architectures.md] _42%_
* [10. Open Questions|179-10-open-questions.md] _25%_
* [7. Open Questions|144-7-open-questions.md] _21%_
* [6. Risks Specific to this Category|217-6-risks-specific-to-this-category.md] _21%_
* [3. What Makes a Composite Skills Agent|256-3-what-makes-a-composite-skills-agent.md] _21%_
* [OPEN KNOWLEDGE WORK FOUNDATION.md|151-open-knowledge-work-foundation-md.md] _17%_
* [6. Ethical Framework|175-6-ethical-framework.md] _17%_
* [References|183-references.md] _17%_
