{info:title=Источник}
Сгенерировано из: {{docs/02-anthropic-vacancies/179-10-open-questions.md}}
Дата: 2026-04-29
{info}

h1. 10. Open Questions


h2. Contents

* [10. Open Questions|#10-open-questions]
  * [10.1. Technical Questions|#101-technical-questions]
  * [10.2. Economic Questions|#102-economic-questions]
  * [10.3. Legal Questions|#103-legal-questions]
  * [10.4. Social Questions|#104-social-questions]
  * [10.5. Philosophical Questions|#105-philosophical-questions]



{quote}Many questions remain unresolved. We list them explicitly{quote}

----





h2. 10. Open Questions

Many questions remain unresolved. We list them explicitly 
to invite collaboration.

h3. 10.1. Technical Questions

How can adversarial robustness be ensured against 
sophisticated counterparty manipulation?

What are appropriate trust hierarchies between 
principal-owned and platform-provided agents?

How should agent-to-agent negotiation work when both 
parties have agents?

How to handle situations where principal preferences 
conflict with general ethical norms?

h3. 10.2. Economic Questions

What's the right pricing model for representative 
agents? Subscription? Commission? Foundation-funded?

How do we ensure access for those who cannot pay?

What economic effects do widespread representative 
agents have on labor markets, professional services, 
attention economy?

h3. 10.3. Legal Questions

What's the legal status of agent communications? 
Are they binding on the principal?

How does liability work when agent makes consequential 
errors?

What jurisdictional rules apply when agent represents 
person in country A communicating with party in 
country B?

How do existing regulations (GDPR, HIPAA, AI Act) 
apply specifically to representative agents?

h3. 10.4. Social Questions

Will representative agents reduce or increase 
inequality?

What happens to professions currently providing 
representational services (lawyers, agents, 
intermediaries) when AI agents become widespread?

What new social dynamics emerge when most 
interactions involve mediation by agents?

How do we preserve direct human connection in a 
world of mediated communication?

h3. 10.5. Philosophical Questions

What is the nature of agency when significant 
delegation occurs to AI?

Can agents authentically represent populations they 
cannot fully understand (children, severely disabled, 
non-human)?

How does identity persist across changes in agent 
configuration over time?

What duties do principals have to their agents and 
vice versa?

These questions deserve dedicated research programs. 
We do not pretend to answer them here. We argue only 
that the questions are worth pursuing because the 
underlying technology will be developed regardless 
of whether ethical frameworks keep pace.

----



----

_Похожие документы:_
* [177-8-risks-and-mitigations|177-8-risks-and-mitigations.md] (сходство 0.14)
* [264-11-open-questions|264-11-open-questions.md] (сходство 0.13)
* [181-12-closing|181-12-closing.md] (сходство 0.12)




----

_Смотрите также:_
* [177-8-risks-and-mitigations|177-8-risks-and-mitigations.md]
* [181-12-closing|181-12-closing.md]
* [264-11-open-questions|264-11-open-questions.md]
* [223-12-closing|223-12-closing.md]


h2. Упоминается в

* [Вакансии Anthropic — Анализ по кластерам|../README.md]


h2. Связанные документы

* [10. Risks Specific to Composite Architectures|263-10-risks-specific-to-composite-architectures.md] _29%_
* [11. Open Questions|264-11-open-questions.md] _29%_
* [Часто задаваемые вопросы (FAQ)|../FAQ.md] _29%_
* [3. What Makes a Representative Agent|172-3-what-makes-a-representative-agent.md] _25%_
* [5. Architectural Specification|174-5-architectural-specification.md] _25%_
* [8. Risks and Mitigations|177-8-risks-and-mitigations.md] _25%_
* [10. Open Questions|221-10-open-questions.md] _25%_
* [12. Closing|223-12-closing.md] _25%_
