{info:title=Источник}
Сгенерировано из: {{docs/02-anthropic-vacancies/182-acknowledgments.md}}
Дата: 2026-04-29
{info}

h1. Acknowledgments

{quote}[!TIP]{quote}
{quote}Документ содержит практические рекомендации и лучшие практики.{quote}




{quote}This concept emerged through dialogue across multiple{quote}

----





h2. Acknowledgments

This concept emerged through dialogue across multiple 
sessions in 2026. The "Cinderella Syndrome" framing and 
the extension to social workers, caregivers, and other 
non-knowledge-worker domains came from conversation 
with Claude (Anthropic) on April 19, 2026. The author 
integrated, expanded, and retained editorial authority.

Ideas from prior thinkers shape this work, particularly: 
Herbert Simon (attention economy), Robert Merton (Matthew 
effect), George Akerlof (information asymmetry), and the 
extensive literature on principal-agent theory in 
economics and law.

This document, like its companions, is offered freely 
under CC BY 4.0. If it helps anyone build infrastructure 
that genuinely serves underrepresented populations, that 
will be more than enough.

----



----

_Похожие документы:_
* [224-acknowledgments|224-acknowledgments.md] (сходство 0.17)
* [146-acknowledgments|146-acknowledgments.md] (сходство 0.14)
* [267-acknowledgments|267-acknowledgments.md] (сходство 0.13)




----

_Смотрите также:_
* [146-acknowledgments|146-acknowledgments.md]
* [224-acknowledgments|224-acknowledgments.md]
* [209-a-typology-of-ai-agents-on-the-principal-side-and-|209-a-typology-of-ai-agents-on-the-principal-side-and-.md]
* [167-ai-mediated-representation-for-underrepresented-ex|167-ai-mediated-representation-for-underrepresented-ex.md]


h2. Упоминается в

* [Вакансии Anthropic — Анализ по кластерам|../README.md]


h2. Связанные документы

* [Acknowledgments|224-acknowledgments.md] _48%_
* [Acknowledgments|146-acknowledgments.md] _42%_
* [AI Support Through Configurable Specialist Ensembles|251-ai-support-through-configurable-specialist-ensembl.md] _37%_
* [AI-Mediated Representation for Underrepresented Experts and Vulnerable Populations|167-ai-mediated-representation-for-underrepresented-ex.md] _33%_
* [A Typology of AI Agents on the Principal Side and the Case for Profession-Specific Co-Workers|209-a-typology-of-ai-agents-on-the-principal-side-and-.md] _29%_
* [Acknowledgments|267-acknowledgments.md] _29%_
* [Appendix A: Connection to Companion Papers|184-appendix-a-connection-to-companion-papers.md] _25%_
* [Table of Contents|211-table-of-contents.md] _25%_
