{info:title=Источник}
Сгенерировано из: {{docs/02-anthropic-vacancies/212-1-the-five-type-typology-of-principal-side-agents.md}}
Дата: 2026-04-29
{info}

h1. 1. The Five-Type Typology of Principal-Side Agents


{quote}_Абстракт_ (авто){quote}
>
{quote}🎯 _Проблема:_ A single human professional could simultaneously have: Personal AI Assistants (Type 0) do not occupy a fixed layer — they function across all layers as utility, used as needed.{quote}
{quote}🔧 _Подход:_ Embeds professional knowledge (norms, methodologies, regulations, templates) so that practitioners do not have to re-explain their context.{quote}
{quote}🏷️ _Ключевые слова:_ {{agent}}, {{agents}}, {{principal}}, {{professional}}, {{types}}, {{institutional}}, {{representative}}, {{anthropic}}{quote}
>



{quote}The Representative Agent Layer paper introduced one type of AI{quote}

----


h2. Содержание

* [1. The Five-Type Typology of Principal-Side Agents|#1-the-five-type-typology-of-principal-side-agents]
  * [1.1. Type 0 — Personal AI Assistants|#11-type-0-personal-ai-assistants]
  * [1.2. Type 1 — Professional Colleague Agents|#12-type-1-professional-colleague-agents]
  * [1.3. Type 2 — Institutional Agents|#13-type-2-institutional-agents]
  * [1.4. Type 3 — Employee Agents|#14-type-3-employee-agents]
  * [1.5. Type 4 — Representative Agents|#15-type-4-representative-agents]
  * [1.6. Layered Architecture on the Principal Side|#16-layered-architecture-on-the-principal-side]
  * [1.7. Why This Distinction Matters|#17-why-this-distinction-matters]

----






h2. 1. The Five-Type Typology of Principal-Side Agents

The Representative Agent Layer paper introduced one type of AI
agent on the principal side. In doing so, it implicitly suggested
that "AI agent serving a human" is a single category. This
formulation, on reflection, obscures important distinctions.
We now identify five distinct types.

h3. 1.1. Type 0 — Personal AI Assistants

_Examples_: ChatGPT, Claude, Cursor, [GitHub|../docs/01-svyazi/03-component-catalog.md] Copilot, Claude
Code.

_Function_: General-purpose helper with whatever task the
user explicitly brings.

_Direction_: Reactive. User initiates, AI responds.

_Specialization_: None. Universal across domains.

_Persistence_: Session-based. Memory limited.

_Replication_: One product serves all users.

_State of art_: Mature. Mass-deployed. Hundreds of millions
of users.

h3. 1.2. Type 1 — Professional Colleague Agents

_Examples_: «Обучай» (teachers), specialized medical AI
assistants, parajural AI tools, teacher-specific tutoring AI.

_Function_: Helper specialized for a specific profession.
Embeds professional knowledge (norms, methodologies, regulations,
templates) so that practitioners do not have to re-explain
their context.

_Direction_: Reactive within professional context.
Practitioner sets task; agent applies professional knowledge.

_Specialization_: Deep, single profession.

_Persistence_: Professional context persists across sessions.
User's specific work-in-progress may persist.

_Replication_: One product serves all practitioners of the
profession (millions of teachers, hundreds of thousands of
medical professionals, etc.).

_State of art_: Emerging. First successful examples like
«Обучай» exist. Mass deployment beginning.

h3. 1.3. Type 2 — Institutional Agents

_Examples_: AI integrated with school grading systems, court
filing systems, hospital electronic records, government benefit
processing.

_Function_: Embedded in institutional infrastructure. Serves
both the institution and the human practitioner. Bridges
between individual work and institutional records.

_Direction_: Bidirectional. Institutional rules constrain;
human work flows into institutional records.

_Specialization_: Both professional and institutional.

_Persistence_: Institutional. Records and decisions persist
in institutional memory.

_Replication_: One per institution-type, often customized
per institution.

_State of art_: Early. Some healthcare systems experimenting.
Major regulatory questions unresolved.

h3. 1.4. Type 3 — Employee Agents

_Examples_: AI handling routine email correspondence
autonomously. AI conducting initial student examinations. AI
processing standard insurance claims. AI making first-pass
hiring screening decisions.

_Function_: Operates within delegated scope of authority,
making decisions and taking actions independently. Reports
results to human supervisor.

_Direction_: Autonomous within delegation. Human sets scope;
AI executes within it.

_Specialization_: Specific task within a profession.

_Persistence_: Operational. Continuous activity within
scope.

_Replication_: Per-task replication.

_State of art_: Beginning. Significant ethical and regulatory
challenges. Examples exist but controversial.

h3. 1.5. Type 4 — Representative Agents

_Examples_: None in production. Proposed in Representative
Agent Layer paper.

_Function_: Represents principal externally — discovers
opportunities, manages presentation, conducts negotiations,
protects from harm.

_Direction_: Outward-facing. AI engages with world on
behalf of principal.

_Specialization_: Deep individual specialization. Each
principal has unique agent.

_Persistence_: Long-term. Models principal's life arc.

_Replication_: One per principal.

_State of art_: Conceptual. Architecture proposed, no
production deployment.

h3. 1.6. Layered Architecture on the Principal Side

These five types form a coherent _stack_ on the principal
side. A single human professional could simultaneously have:

{code}
              [EXTERNAL WORLD]
                     ↑
             [Representative Agent]   (Type 4)
                     ↑
                [PRINCIPAL]
                     ↓
           [Professional Colleagues]  (Type 1)
                     ↓
            [Institutional Agents]    (Type 2)
                     ↓
              [Employee Agents]       (Type 3)
                     ↓
            [PROFESSIONAL WORK]
{code}

Personal AI Assistants (Type 0) do not occupy a fixed layer —
they function across all layers as utility, used as needed.

This typology is _not_ a hierarchy of capability. Each type
serves a different function. Type 1 is not "less advanced
than" Type 4; it is "different from." A mature deployment of
AI infrastructure for professionals likely involves multiple
types operating together.

h3. 1.7. Why This Distinction Matters

Each type has fundamentally different characteristics:

|| Property || Type 0 || Type 1 || Type 2 || Type 3 || Type 4 ||
|| Specialization || None || Profession || Institution+profession || Task || Individual ||
|| External communication || None || None || Some || Some || Extensive ||
|| Replicability || Universal || Per profession || Per institution || Per task || Per individual ||
|| Economics || Subscription || Profession-wide || Institutional || Variable || Individual ||
|| Ethical concerns || Low || Medium || Medium || High || Highest ||
|| Regulatory complexity || Low || Medium || High || Highest || Highest ||
|| Deployment readiness || Mature || Emerging || Early || Beginning || Conceptual ||

Conflating these types in a single discussion produces
confused analysis. Each requires its own architectural,
ethical, and economic framework.

----



----

_Похожие документы:_
* [226-appendix-a-comparative-table-five-agent-types|226-appendix-a-comparative-table-five-agent-types.md] (сходство 0.24)
* [220-9-relationship-to-other-agent-types|220-9-relationship-to-other-agent-types.md] (сходство 0.18)
* [213-2-what-makes-a-professional-colleague-agent|213-2-what-makes-a-professional-colleague-agent.md] (сходство 0.17)




----

_Смотрите также:_
* [226-appendix-a-comparative-table-five-agent-types|226-appendix-a-comparative-table-five-agent-types.md]
* [220-9-relationship-to-other-agent-types|220-9-relationship-to-other-agent-types.md]
* [213-2-what-makes-a-professional-colleague-agent|213-2-what-makes-a-professional-colleague-agent.md]
* [172-3-what-makes-a-representative-agent|172-3-what-makes-a-representative-agent.md]


h2. Упоминается в

* [1. Why the Binary View Is Incomplete|254-1-why-the-binary-view-is-incomplete.md]
* [12. Closing|223-12-closing.md]
* [2. Historical Precedents: Agents as Civilizational Innovation|171-2-historical-precedents-agents-as-civilizational-i.md]
* [2. What Makes a Professional Colleague Agent|213-2-what-makes-a-professional-colleague-agent.md]
* [3. Empirical Case Study: «Обучай»|214-3-empirical-case-study-обучай.md]
* [3. What Makes a Representative Agent|172-3-what-makes-a-representative-agent.md]
* [7. Governance and Oversight|176-7-governance-and-oversight.md]
* [9. Relationship to Other Agent Types|220-9-relationship-to-other-agent-types.md]
* [Abstract|210-abstract.md]
* [Appendix A: Comparative Table — Five Agent Types|226-appendix-a-comparative-table-five-agent-types.md]
* [Appendix A: The Six-Type Taxonomy (Updated)|269-appendix-a-the-six-type-taxonomy-updated.md]
* [Appendix B: Decision Framework — When to Build Type 1 First|227-appendix-b-decision-framework-when-to-build-type-1.md]
* [Appendix C: Quick-Start Architecture for SGB Advocate Colleague|228-appendix-c-quick-start-architecture-for-sgb-advoca.md]
* [Table of Contents|211-table-of-contents.md]
* [Вакансии Anthropic — Анализ по кластерам|README.md]
h2. Упоминается в

* [Вакансии Anthropic — Анализ по кластерам|../README.md]


h2. Связанные документы

* [Table of Contents|211-table-of-contents.md] _42%_
* [9. Relationship to Other Agent Types|220-9-relationship-to-other-agent-types.md] _42%_
* [2. What Makes a Professional Colleague Agent|213-2-what-makes-a-professional-colleague-agent.md] _37%_
* [Appendix A: Comparative Table — Five Agent Types|226-appendix-a-comparative-table-five-agent-types.md] _37%_
* [Appendix B: Decision Framework — When to Build Type 1 First|227-appendix-b-decision-framework-when-to-build-type-1.md] _37%_
* [Abstract|210-abstract.md] _33%_
* [12. Closing|223-12-closing.md] _33%_
* [3. What Makes a Representative Agent|172-3-what-makes-a-representative-agent.md] _29%_
h2. Связанные документы

* [9. Relationship to Other Agent Types|220-9-relationship-to-other-agent-types.md] _53%_
* [Table of Contents|211-table-of-contents.md] _37%_
* [2. What Makes a Professional Colleague Agent|213-2-what-makes-a-professional-colleague-agent.md] _37%_
* [Appendix A: Comparative Table — Five Agent Types|226-appendix-a-comparative-table-five-agent-types.md] _33%_
* [3. What Makes a Representative Agent|172-3-what-makes-a-representative-agent.md] _29%_
* [Abstract|210-abstract.md] _29%_
* [12. Closing|223-12-closing.md] _29%_
* [Appendix B: Decision Framework — When to Build Type 1 First|227-appendix-b-decision-framework-when-to-build-type-1.md] _29%_
