{info:title=Источник}
Сгенерировано из: {{docs/02-anthropic-vacancies/213-2-what-makes-a-professional-colleague-agent.md}}
Дата: 2026-04-29
{info}

h1. 2. What Makes a Professional Colleague Agent


{quote}We now develop Type 1 in detail.{quote}

----


h2. Содержание

* [2. What Makes a Professional Colleague Agent|#2-what-makes-a-professional-colleague-agent]
  * [2.1. Defining Properties|#21-defining-properties]
  * [2.2. What a Professional Colleague Agent Does|#22-what-a-professional-colleague-agent-does]
  * [2.3. What a Professional Colleague Agent Does NOT Do|#23-what-a-professional-colleague-agent-does-not-do]
  * [2.4. The "Colleague" Metaphor|#24-the-colleague-metaphor]

----






h2. 2. What Makes a Professional Colleague Agent

We now develop Type 1 in detail.

h3. 2.1. Defining Properties

A Professional Colleague Agent has six defining properties.
Together they constitute the type; absent any one, the system
falls into a different category.

_Property 1 — Embedded Professional Context._ The agent has
deep, persistent knowledge of professional norms, methodologies,
regulations, vocabulary, and templates. The practitioner does
not need to re-explain professional context with each
interaction.

_Property 2 — Single-Profession Specialization._ The agent
serves one defined profession (or one defined sub-specialty).
Not "multiple professions". Not "general professional work."
This focus enables depth.

_Property 3 — Augmentation, Not Replacement._ The agent
helps the human practitioner do their work better. The
practitioner remains responsible for outputs. The agent
does not unilaterally produce final professional outputs.

_Property 4 — No External Communications._ The agent does
not communicate with parties beyond the practitioner. Outputs
are delivered to the practitioner for review and use. This
distinguishes from Representative Agents and partially from
Employee Agents.

_Property 5 — Mass Replication._ The same agent design serves
all practitioners of the profession. Per-user customization is
limited to user preferences and work-in-progress. The
professional context itself is shared.

_Property 6 — Recognition of Burden._ The agent addresses
work that practitioners themselves recognize as burdensome
or low-value. This is essential to adoption — agents that
"help" with work practitioners enjoy will be rejected.

h3. 2.2. What a Professional Colleague Agent Does

Five core functions:

_Function 1 — Generation in Professional Format._ Produce
drafts, materials, plans, analyses in formats specific to the
profession. A teaching agent generates lesson plans in
educational formats. A legal agent generates submissions in
legal formats. A medical agent generates clinical notes in
medical formats. Format matters because professional
communication requires correct conventions.

_Function 2 — Application of Professional Standards._ Apply
relevant standards, regulations, methodologies automatically.
The teacher does not need to manually consult educational
standards every time. The lawyer does not need to look up
relevant statutes. The doctor does not need to remember
clinical guidelines. The agent applies these in the
background.

_Function 3 — Routine Task Automation._ Handle the
repetitive components of professional work that consume
disproportionate time relative to value. Grade entry. Form
filling. Standard correspondence. Documentation routines.

_Function 4 — Quality Checking._ Identify likely errors,
omissions, inconsistencies in practitioner's draft outputs.
Acts as a knowledgeable colleague reviewing work.

_Function 5 — Knowledge Lookup._ Provide rapid access to
professional knowledge bases — case law, clinical literature,
methodological references, regulatory updates. Reduces
research time.

h3. 2.3. What a Professional Colleague Agent Does NOT Do

Equally important is what the agent does not do:

_Not external communication._ Does not contact patients,
students, clients, or counterparties on behalf of the
practitioner. All such contact remains with the human.

_Not autonomous decisions._ Does not make professional
judgments without human review. Diagnoses, verdicts, grades,
clinical decisions remain with the practitioner.

_Not market navigation._ Does not seek opportunities,
manage career, conduct negotiations. That is a Representative
Agent's job.

_Not professional licensure replacement._ The practitioner
remains the licensed professional. The agent operates under
the practitioner's professional authority, not its own.

These boundaries are critical. They preserve professional
agency, distribute liability sensibly, and avoid scope-creep
into ethically more difficult territory.

h3. 2.4. The "Colleague" Metaphor

Why "Colleague" rather than "Assistant" or "Tool"?

_"Tool"_ suggests passive instrument used by craftsperson.
A hammer. A spreadsheet. Tools have no professional context
of their own.

_"Assistant"_ suggests subordinate helper executing tasks
delegated by superior. A secretary. An apprentice. Assistants
help with specific delegated tasks.

_"Colleague"_ suggests peer in profession, shared context,
mutual respect, parallel work. A fellow doctor reviewing your
case. A senior teacher offering advice. Colleagues bring
professional expertise to the relationship.

The Professional Colleague Agent occupies the third position.
Not a passive tool. Not a subordinate assistant. A peer-level
participant in the professional context who happens to be AI.

This framing matters for adoption. Practitioners who would
resist "AI replacing their tools" may welcome "AI colleague
to discuss work with."

----



----

_Похожие документы:_
* [212-1-the-five-type-typology-of-principal-side-agents|212-1-the-five-type-typology-of-principal-side-agents.md] (сходство 0.17)
* [220-9-relationship-to-other-agent-types|220-9-relationship-to-other-agent-types.md] (сходство 0.16)
* [214-3-empirical-case-study-обучай|214-3-empirical-case-study-обучай.md] (сходство 0.16)




----

_Смотрите также:_
* [212-1-the-five-type-typology-of-principal-side-agents|212-1-the-five-type-typology-of-principal-side-agents.md]
* [220-9-relationship-to-other-agent-types|220-9-relationship-to-other-agent-types.md]
* [214-3-empirical-case-study-обучай|214-3-empirical-case-study-обучай.md]
* [210-abstract|210-abstract.md]


h2. Упоминается в

* [Вакансии Anthropic — Анализ по кластерам|../README.md]


h2. Связанные документы

* [Table of Contents|211-table-of-contents.md] _42%_
* [9. Relationship to Other Agent Types|220-9-relationship-to-other-agent-types.md] _42%_
* [1. The Five-Type Typology of Principal-Side Agents|212-1-the-five-type-typology-of-principal-side-agents.md] _37%_
* [3. What Makes a Representative Agent|172-3-what-makes-a-representative-agent.md] _33%_
* [10. Open Questions|221-10-open-questions.md] _29%_
* [Appendix B: Decision Framework — When to Build Type 1 First|227-appendix-b-decision-framework-when-to-build-type-1.md] _29%_
* [3. What Makes a Composite Skills Agent|256-3-what-makes-a-composite-skills-agent.md] _29%_
* [OPEN KNOWLEDGE WORK FOUNDATION.md|151-open-knowledge-work-foundation-md.md] _25%_
