{info:title=Источник}
Сгенерировано из: {{docs/02-anthropic-vacancies/219-8-pilot-proposal-sgb-advocate-colleague.md}}
Дата: 2026-04-29
{info}

h1. 8. Pilot Proposal: SGB Advocate Colleague


{quote}_Абстракт_ (авто){quote}
>
{quote}🎯 _Проблема:_ Clear demand: Author personally needs this.{quote}
{quote}🔧 _Подход:_ Tertiary requires careful design and supervision; appropriate for later phase.{quote}
{quote}✅ _Результат:_ Direct experience shows that legal advocacy in this domain is severely under-resourced.{quote}
{quote}🏷️ _Ключевые слова:_ {{pilot}}, {{procedural}}, {{colleague}}, {{practitioners}}, {{knowledge}}, {{domain}}, {{advocates}}, {{agent}}{quote}
>



{quote}We now apply the Professional Colleague Agent framework to a{quote}

----


h2. Содержание

* [8. Pilot Proposal: SGB Advocate Colleague|#8-pilot-proposal-sgb-advocate-colleague]
  * [8.1. Context|#81-context]
  * [8.2. Target Practitioners|#82-target-practitioners]
  * [8.3. Burden Addressed|#83-burden-addressed]
  * [8.4. Knowledge Base Requirements|#84-knowledge-base-requirements]
  * [8.5. Pilot Cohort|#85-pilot-cohort]
  * [8.6. Resource Requirements|#86-resource-requirements]
  * [8.7. Expected Outcomes|#87-expected-outcomes]
  * [8.8. Why This Domain First|#88-why-this-domain-first]

----






h2. 8. Pilot Proposal: SGB Advocate Colleague

We now apply the Professional Colleague Agent framework to a
specific opportunity: an agent for advocates in German social
law (SGB), particularly disability and welfare rights.

h3. 8.1. Context

The author of this paper engages directly with German social
law through ongoing Sozialgericht proceedings (cases S 6 SO
58/26 ER and S 7 SO 99/25 in Dresden). Direct experience
shows that legal advocacy in this domain is severely
under-resourced. Many qualified disabled people lose
entitlements through procedural failures because they cannot
access adequate representation.

This is the same domain identified in Representative Agent
Layer paper as Domain 4 (vulnerable citizens navigating
bureaucracy). Professional Colleague Agent for advocates
serving this population could amplify their capacity
substantially.

h3. 8.2. Target Practitioners

_Primary_: Lawyers specializing in social law (Sozialrecht)
in Germany. Estimated 5,000-10,000 active practitioners.

_Secondary_: Disability rights advocates in NGOs (Sozialverband
VdK, Behindertenverbände, Diakonie social work staff). Estimated
2,000-5,000 practitioners.

_Tertiary_: Self-representing affected individuals (with
supervisory professional review). Potentially hundreds of
thousands.

For pilot, focus on Primary and Secondary. Tertiary requires
careful design and supervision; appropriate for later phase.

h3. 8.3. Burden Addressed

_Routine drafting_:
* Widerspruch against rejected applications
* Klage (lawsuit) submission to Sozialgericht
* Stellungnahme on counterparty filings
* Antrag for procedural relief
* Eilantrag for emergency proceedings

_Knowledge lookup_:
* Relevant SGB statutes (IX, XII primarily)
* BSG decisions and precedent (e.g., B 8 SO 9/19 R)
* Local Sozialgericht procedural variations
* Federal-state law interaction

_Procedural management_:
* Deadline tracking (Fristwahrung)
* Document organization across multiple proceedings
* Evidence inventory and citation
* Hearing preparation

_Communication drafting_:
* Standard correspondence with KSV, Sozialamt, courts
* Routine procedural letters
* Client-facing summary documents

h3. 8.4. Knowledge Base Requirements

The Layer A for this agent requires:

_Statutory knowledge_:
* Full SGB IX (rehabilitation, disability)
* Full SGB XII (social assistance)
* Relevant SGG (procedural law)
* Selected SGB I, II, III, V, XI cross-references

_Case law_:
* BSG decisions (federal social court)
* Sächsisches Landessozialgericht decisions (state-specific)
* Selected Sozialgericht-level decisions

_Procedural standards_:
* Sozialgericht procedural conventions
* Local court practices (Dresden specifically for pilot)
* Standard formatting for filings

_Pattern library_:
* Successful Widerspruch templates by issue type
* Standard arguments for common rejection patterns
* Anonymized successful approaches

_Bureaucratic knowledge_:
* KSV Sachsen practices and known patterns
* Sozialamt Dresden practices
* Common procedural errors by authorities

This represents substantial curation work — perhaps 2,000-5,000
expert hours to bootstrap. Maintenance: 200-500 hours/year.

h3. 8.5. Pilot Cohort

_Phase 0 (Months 1-6)_: Bootstrap with 5-10 advocates,
including the author, plus 1-2 lawyers willing to test
intensively. Build initial Layer A. Refine through real use.

_Phase 1 (Months 6-18)_: Expand to 50-100 advocates. Iterate
on knowledge base. Establish quality assurance processes.

_Phase 2 (Months 18-36)_: Open to all interested practitioners
in domain. Target 500-1,000 active users.

_Phase 3 (Years 3+)_: Expand to adjacent domains (other German
states, other social law sub-specialties).

h3. 8.6. Resource Requirements

_Initial development (Year 1)_:
* 1 senior legal expert (curator) full-time: €100,000
* 2 software engineers: €200,000
* LLM API costs: €30,000
* Infrastructure: €20,000
* Legal compliance: €30,000
* Operations: €50,000
* _Total Year 1: €430,000_

_Steady state (Year 2+)_:
* Curation maintenance (0.5 FTE): €60,000
* Engineering maintenance (1 FTE): €100,000
* LLM API costs (scaled): €100,000-300,000
* Infrastructure: €30,000
* Operations: €50,000
* _Total annual: €340,000-540,000_

For 500-1,000 active practitioners, this is roughly
€500-1,000 per practitioner per year — viable for
foundation funding or modest practitioner subscriptions.

h3. 8.7. Expected Outcomes

_For practitioners_:
* 30-50% time reduction on routine drafting
* Improved consistency in formal compliance
* Faster ramp-up for new advocates

_For affected individuals (clients)_:
* More cases successfully advocated
* Faster procedural response
* Better access to entitlements

_For knowledge ecosystem_:
* Public pattern library of successful approaches
* Improved baseline for self-representation
* Anonymized case insights for academic study

_For broader project_:
* Reference implementation for OKWF Professional Colleague
  Agents
* Demonstration of foundation-funded model
* Connection to Representative Agent Layer (advocates use
  agents for clients who could later use Representative
  Agents directly)

h3. 8.8. Why This Domain First

Several factors make this an ideal first deployment for
OKWF Professional Colleague Agents:

_Personal expertise_: Author has direct experience and
domain knowledge.

_Underserved market_: Limited commercial competition in
this specific sub-specialty.

_Aligned values_: Serves vulnerable populations; mission-fit
with foundation funding.

_Manageable scope_: Single legal sub-domain in single
country. Tractable bootstrap.

_Clear demand_: Author personally needs this. Other advocates
do too.

_Network effects available_: Successful case anonymized
patterns benefit all users.

_Foundation-friendly economics_: Modest budget viable;
practitioners cannot afford expensive commercial alternatives;
public funding precedented in legal aid space.

This pilot provides the OKWF concept its first concrete
deployment. From here, expansion to adjacent domains becomes
incremental rather than novel.

----



----

_Похожие документы:_
* [260-7-economics-of-combinatorial-replication|260-7-economics-of-combinatorial-replication.md] (сходство 0.17)
* [262-9-integration-with-okwf-infrastructure|262-9-integration-with-okwf-infrastructure.md] (сходство 0.16)
* [164-10-appendices|164-10-appendices.md] (сходство 0.15)




----

_Смотрите также:_
* [260-7-economics-of-combinatorial-replication|260-7-economics-of-combinatorial-replication.md]
* [262-9-integration-with-okwf-infrastructure|262-9-integration-with-okwf-infrastructure.md]
* [164-10-appendices|164-10-appendices.md]
* [216-5-the-economics-of-profession-wide-replication|216-5-the-economics-of-profession-wide-replication.md]


h2. Упоминается в

* [1. Problem Statement|155-1-problem-statement.md]
* [11. Call for Collaboration|222-11-call-for-collaboration.md]
* [2. Historical Precedents: Agents as Civilizational Innovation|171-2-historical-precedents-agents-as-civilizational-i.md]
* [3. Empirical Case Study: «Обучай»|214-3-empirical-case-study-обучай.md]
* [4. Architecture of Professional Colleague Agents|215-4-architecture-of-professional-colleague-agents.md]
* [4. Ten Domains of Application|173-4-ten-domains-of-application.md]
* [5. The Economics of Profession-Wide Replication|216-5-the-economics-of-profession-wide-replication.md]
* [6. Four Deployment Domains|143-6-four-deployment-domains.md]
* [7. Application Domains|218-7-application-domains.md]
* [7. Economics of Combinatorial Replication|260-7-economics-of-combinatorial-replication.md]
* [7. Phased Rollout Plan|161-7-phased-rollout-plan.md]
* [9. Phased Rollout Strategy|178-9-phased-rollout-strategy.md]
* [Вакансии Anthropic — Анализ по кластерам|README.md]
h2. Упоминается в

* [Вакансии Anthropic — Анализ по кластерам|../README.md]


h2. Связанные документы

* [5. The Economics of Profession-Wide Replication|216-5-the-economics-of-profession-wide-replication.md] _33%_
* [4. The Sub-Agent Registry|257-4-the-sub-agent-registry.md] _33%_
* [Appendix C: Quick-Start Architecture for SGB Advocate Colleague|228-appendix-c-quick-start-architecture-for-sgb-advoca.md] _25%_
* [7. Economics of Combinatorial Replication|260-7-economics-of-combinatorial-replication.md] _25%_
* [OPEN KNOWLEDGE WORK FOUNDATION.md|151-open-knowledge-work-foundation-md.md] _21%_
* [6. Risks Specific to this Category|217-6-risks-specific-to-this-category.md] _21%_
* [COMPOSITE SKILLS AGENT.md|249-composite-skills-agent-md.md] _21%_
* [12. Call for Collaboration|265-12-call-for-collaboration.md] _21%_
h2. Связанные документы

* [5. The Economics of Profession-Wide Replication|216-5-the-economics-of-profession-wide-replication.md] _29%_
* [7. Economics of Combinatorial Replication|260-7-economics-of-combinatorial-replication.md] _29%_
* [OPEN KNOWLEDGE WORK FOUNDATION.md|151-open-knowledge-work-foundation-md.md] _25%_
* [4. Architecture of Professional Colleague Agents|215-4-architecture-of-professional-colleague-agents.md] _25%_
* [10. Open Questions|221-10-open-questions.md] _25%_
* [12. Closing|223-12-closing.md] _25%_
* [Appendix C: Quick-Start Architecture for SGB Advocate Colleague|228-appendix-c-quick-start-architecture-for-sgb-advoca.md] _25%_
* [INFRASTRUCTURE FOR AI-COLLABORATIVE INTELLECTUAL WORK.md|273-infrastructure-for-ai-collaborative-intellectual-w.md] _25%_
