{info:title=Источник}
Сгенерировано из: {{docs/02-anthropic-vacancies/225-references.md}}
Дата: 2026-04-29
{info}

h1. References


h2. Contents

* [References|#references]
  * [Primary Empirical Source|#primary-empirical-source]
  * [Companion Papers|#companion-papers]
  * [Foundation Sources (continued from Representative Agent Layer)|#foundation-sources-continued-from-representative-agent-layer]
  * [Professional Practice Theory|#professional-practice-theory]
  * [AI in Professional Practice|#ai-in-professional-practice]
  * [Related Architecture|#related-architecture]



{quote}- Soldatenko, M. (2026, April 25). «В школах любят страдать».{quote}

----





h2. References

h3. Primary Empirical Source

* Soldatenko, M. (2026, April 25). «В школах любят страдать».
  Учитель создал нейросеть для коллег по всей России — и верит,
  что скоро уроки будет вести ИИ. _Fontanka.ru_.
  https://www.fontanka.ru/2026/04/25/76378978/

h3. Companion Papers

* svend4 (2026). _The Representative Agent Layer v1.0_.
* svend4 (2026). _Open Knowledge Work Foundation Concept Document v1.0_.
* svend4 (2026). _The Double-Triangle Architecture v1.0_.
* svend4 (2026). _Nautilus Portal Protocol v1.1_.

h3. Foundation Sources (continued from Representative Agent Layer)

* Akerlof, G. (1970). "The Market for Lemons".
* Simon, H. A. (1971). "Designing Organizations for an
  Information-Rich World".

h3. Professional Practice Theory

* Schön, D. A. (1983). *The Reflective Practitioner: How
  Professionals Think in Action*. Basic Books.
* Friedson, E. (2001). _Professionalism: The Third Logic_.
  University of Chicago Press.
* Abbott, A. (1988). *The System of Professions: An Essay
  on the Division of Expert Labor*. University of Chicago
  Press.

h3. AI in Professional Practice

* Susskind, R., & Susskind, D. (2015). *The Future of the
  Professions*. Oxford University Press.
* Topol, E. (2019). *Deep Medicine: How Artificial
  Intelligence Can Make Healthcare Human Again*. Basic
  Books.

h3. Related Architecture

* Brynjolfsson, E., et al. (2023). "Generative AI at Work".
  _Quarterly Journal of Economics_ (forthcoming).

----



----

_Похожие документы:_
* [245-ссылки|245-ссылки.md] (сходство 0.22)
* [183-references|183-references.md] (сходство 0.22)
* [268-references|268-references.md] (сходство 0.18)




----

_Смотрите также:_
* [245-ссылки|245-ссылки.md]
* [183-references|183-references.md]
* [251-ai-support-through-configurable-specialist-ensembl|251-ai-support-through-configurable-specialist-ensembl.md]
* [268-references|268-references.md]


h2. Упоминается в

* [Вакансии Anthropic — Анализ по кластерам|../README.md]


h2. Связанные документы

* [References|268-references.md] _29%_
* [References|183-references.md] _25%_
* [Appendix C: Quick-Start Architecture for SGB Advocate Colleague|228-appendix-c-quick-start-architecture-for-sgb-advoca.md] _25%_
* [THE DOUBLE-TRIANGLE ARCHITECTURE.md|134-the-double-triangle-architecture-md.md] _21%_
* [References|147-references.md] _21%_
* [REPRESENTATIVE AGENT LAYER.md|166-representative-agent-layer-md.md] _21%_
* [Abstract|168-abstract.md] _21%_
* [Appendix C: Sample Use Cases in Detail|186-appendix-c-sample-use-cases-in-detail.md] _21%_
