{info:title=Источник}
Сгенерировано из: {{docs/02-anthropic-vacancies/252-abstract.md}}
Дата: 2026-04-29
{info}

h1. Abstract




{quote}_Абстракт_ (авто){quote}
>
{quote}🎯 _Проблема:_ Abstract The five-type taxonomy introduced in Professional Colleague --- Abstract The five-type taxonomy introduced in Professional Colleague Agents (Type 0 through Type 4) treats {quote}
{quote}🔧 _Подход:_ Most skilled professionals occupy a middle zone: not generic practitioners of a profession, not unique individuals beyond categorization, but composite specialists — practitioners {quote}
{quote}🏷️ _Ключевые слова:_ {{anthropic}}, {{vacancies}}, {{binary}}, {{incomplete}}, {{abstract}}, {{unique}}, {{composite}}, {{narrow}}{quote}
>



{quote}The five-type taxonomy introduced in Professional Colleague{quote}

----





h2. Abstract

The five-type taxonomy introduced in Professional Colleague 
Agents (Type 0 through Type 4) treats the gap between 
profession-wide standardization (Type 1) and individual-unique 
representation (Type 4) as essentially binary. Reflection on 
how mastery actually develops in human professions reveals this 
binary view to be incomplete.

Most skilled professionals occupy a middle zone: not generic 
practitioners of a profession, not unique individuals beyond 
categorization, but _composite specialists_ — practitioners 
whose distinctive value comes from a particular combination of 
narrow specializations that, while individually general, 
together produce something approaching uniqueness.

This paper introduces the _Composite Skills Agent_ as a 
distinct architectural pattern, positioned between Type 1 
(Professional Colleague) and Type 4 (Representative Agent). 
A Composite Skills Agent serves a principal who maintains a 
specific configuration of narrow specializations, drawing on 
ensemble of narrow-specialist sub-agents that are individually 
general (each shared across many principals) but combinatorially 
unique (the specific configuration belongs to one principal).

We motivate this pattern through the metaphor of the Indian yoga 
master who studied with twenty distinct teachers, each a narrow 
specialist; develop technical and economic architecture; identify 
seven domains where the pattern applies; describe risks unique 
to ensemble configurations; and propose integration with OKWF 
infrastructure as a refinement of the existing rollout plan.

We argue that Composite Skills Agents are the **architectural 
form most natural to mature professions** and that recognizing 
this category changes the practical strategy for AI deployment 
in skilled work.

----



----

_Похожие документы:_
* [254-1-why-the-binary-view-is-incomplete|254-1-why-the-binary-view-is-incomplete.md] (сходство 0.25)
* [267-acknowledgments|267-acknowledgments.md] (сходство 0.24)
* [266-13-closing|266-13-closing.md] (сходство 0.20)




----

_Смотрите также:_
* [254-1-why-the-binary-view-is-incomplete|254-1-why-the-binary-view-is-incomplete.md]
* [267-acknowledgments|267-acknowledgments.md]
* [266-13-closing|266-13-closing.md]
* [210-abstract|210-abstract.md]


h2. Упоминается в

* [1. Why the Binary View Is Incomplete|254-1-why-the-binary-view-is-incomplete.md]
* [10. Risks Specific to Composite Architectures|263-10-risks-specific-to-composite-architectures.md]
* [12. Closing|223-12-closing.md]
* [13. Closing|266-13-closing.md]
* [2. The Twenty-One Teachers Pattern|255-2-the-twenty-one-teachers-pattern.md]
* [3. Empirical Case Study: «Обучай»|214-3-empirical-case-study-обучай.md]
* [4. The Sub-Agent Registry|257-4-the-sub-agent-registry.md]
* [Abstract|168-abstract.md]
* [Abstract|210-abstract.md]
* [Acknowledgments|267-acknowledgments.md]
* [Appendix A: The Six-Type Taxonomy (Updated)|269-appendix-a-the-six-type-taxonomy-updated.md]
* [Table of Contents|253-table-of-contents.md]
* [Вакансии Anthropic — Анализ по кластерам|README.md]
h2. Упоминается в

* [Вакансии Anthropic — Анализ по кластерам|../README.md]


h2. Связанные документы

* [1. Why the Binary View Is Incomplete|254-1-why-the-binary-view-is-incomplete.md] _48%_
* [Abstract|210-abstract.md] _29%_
* [Table of Contents|253-table-of-contents.md] _29%_
* [OPEN KNOWLEDGE WORK FOUNDATION.md|151-open-knowledge-work-foundation-md.md] _25%_
* [9. Relationship to Other Agent Types|220-9-relationship-to-other-agent-types.md] _25%_
* [12. Closing|223-12-closing.md] _25%_
* [2. The Twenty-One Teachers Pattern|255-2-the-twenty-one-teachers-pattern.md] _25%_
* [13. Closing|266-13-closing.md] _25%_
h2. Связанные документы

* [1. Why the Binary View Is Incomplete|254-1-why-the-binary-view-is-incomplete.md] _42%_
* [Abstract|210-abstract.md] _33%_
* [12. Closing|223-12-closing.md] _33%_
* [Acknowledgments|267-acknowledgments.md] _33%_
* [OPEN KNOWLEDGE WORK FOUNDATION.md|151-open-knowledge-work-foundation-md.md] _29%_
* [PROFESSIONAL COLLEAGUE AGENTS.md|208-professional-colleague-agents-md.md] _29%_
* [COMPOSITE SKILLS AGENT.md|249-composite-skills-agent-md.md] _29%_
* [Table of Contents|253-table-of-contents.md] _29%_
