{info:title=Источник}
Сгенерировано из: {{docs/02-anthropic-vacancies/267-acknowledgments.md}}
Дата: 2026-04-29
{info}

h1. Acknowledgments


{quote}The Composite Skills Agent concept emerged from dialogue with{quote}

----





h2. Acknowledgments

The Composite Skills Agent concept emerged from dialogue with 
Claude (Anthropic) on April 26, 2026. The crystallizing 
contribution was the user's observation that the binary view 
between Professional Colleague Agent (Type 1) and Representative 
Agent (Type 4) missed the most common middle case — practitioners 
whose distinctive value comes from combining individually general 
specializations.

The metaphor of the Indian yoga master who studied with twenty 
teachers, drawn from a journalist's interview the user 
remembered, provides the central illustration that makes the 
pattern clear.

The user retained editorial authority. All claims, errors, and 
specific architectural proposals are author's responsibility.

This paper is the seventh in the sequence developed across this 
extended collaboration:
1. Nautilus Portal Protocol v1.1
2. Review Methodology v1.0
3. Double-Triangle Architecture v1.0
4. Open Knowledge Work Foundation Concept Document v1.0
5. Representative Agent Layer v1.0
6. Professional Colleague Agents v1.0
7. Composite Skills Agent v1.0 (this paper)

Together these papers form an architectural vision for 
AI-supported knowledge work that respects how mastery develops, 
how professions function, and how human dignity is preserved 
when AI augments human practice.

----



----

_Похожие документы:_
* [319-acknowledgments|319-acknowledgments.md] (сходство 0.26)
* [274-the-missing-middle-layer-between-chat-and-code|274-the-missing-middle-layer-between-chat-and-code.md] (сходство 0.25)
* [252-abstract|252-abstract.md] (сходство 0.24)




----

_Смотрите также:_
* [319-acknowledgments|319-acknowledgments.md]
* [274-the-missing-middle-layer-between-chat-and-code|274-the-missing-middle-layer-between-chat-and-code.md]
* [252-abstract|252-abstract.md]
* [251-ai-support-through-configurable-specialist-ensembl|251-ai-support-through-configurable-specialist-ensembl.md]


h2. Упоминается в

* [Вакансии Anthropic — Анализ по кластерам|../README.md]


h2. Связанные документы

* [Acknowledgments|286-acknowledgments.md] _48%_
* [Acknowledgments|319-acknowledgments.md] _42%_
* [A Typology of AI Agents on the Principal Side and the Case for Profession-Specific Co-Workers|209-a-typology-of-ai-agents-on-the-principal-side-and-.md] _33%_
* [AI Support Through Configurable Specialist Ensembles|251-ai-support-through-configurable-specialist-ensembl.md] _33%_
* [Abstract|252-abstract.md] _33%_
* [References|287-references.md] _33%_
* [Abstract|168-abstract.md] _29%_
* [Acknowledgments|182-acknowledgments.md] _29%_
