{info:title=Источник}
Сгенерировано из: {{docs/02-anthropic-vacancies/271-appendix-c-configuration-template-example.md}}
Дата: 2026-04-29
{info}

h1. Appendix C: Configuration Template Example


{quote}For the SGB Advocate Colleague pilot, a starting configuration{quote}

----





h2. Appendix C: Configuration Template Example

For the SGB Advocate Colleague pilot, a starting configuration 
template for "General Disability Rights Advocate" might include:

{code:language=yaml}
configuration:
  name: "General Disability Rights Advocate (Saxony)"
  description: |
    Starting configuration for advocates working on disability 
    rights cases in Saxony, Germany. Suitable for practitioners 
    handling general SGB IX and SGB XII cases without specific 
    sub-specialization.
  base_profile:
    profession: "legal-advocate"
    sub_specialty: "disability-rights"
    jurisdiction: "germany-saxony"
    languages: ["de", "en"]
  sub_agents:
    foundational:
      - "sgb-ix-general-overview"
      - "sgb-xii-general-overview"
      - "german-procedural-law-basics"
      - "general-legal-drafting-german"
    specialized:
      - "sgb-ix-section-78-eingliederungshilfe"
      - "sgb-ix-personal-budget-procedures"
      - "bsg-precedent-disability-cases"
      - "saxony-court-procedural-conventions"
    supporting:
      - "medical-assessment-interpretation"
      - "fristwahrung-deadline-management"
      - "ksv-sachsen-interaction-patterns"
      - "sozialamt-dresden-interaction-patterns"
    optional_growth_edges:
      - "mental-health-disability-specifics"
      - "child-disability-specifics"
      - "elderly-disability-specifics"
      - "migrant-disability-specifics"
  total_sub_agents: 13 (with 4 optional)
  estimated_setup_time: "30-60 minutes"
  estimated_first_use: "Same day after configuration"
  recommended_review: "Quarterly for first year, then annually"
{code}

This template provides a starting point that practitioners 
modify based on their actual practice. Some will add sub-agents 
for additional specializations. Some will remove sub-agents 
they don't need. Each ends up with a configuration distinctive 
to their practice.

The "optional_growth_edges" section deliberately suggests 
specializations the practitioner might add as their practice 
develops, encouraging exploration beyond the initial 
configuration.

----



----

_Похожие документы:_
* [270-appendix-b-sub-agent-registry-schema-sketch|270-appendix-b-sub-agent-registry-schema-sketch.md] (сходство 0.11)
* [258-5-configuration-how-principals-build-their-ensembl|258-5-configuration-how-principals-build-their-ensembl.md] (сходство 0.10)
* [265-12-call-for-collaboration|265-12-call-for-collaboration.md] (сходство 0.10)




----

_Смотрите также:_
* [270-appendix-b-sub-agent-registry-schema-sketch|270-appendix-b-sub-agent-registry-schema-sketch.md]
* [321-appendix-a-decision-tree-for-ingit-adopters|321-appendix-a-decision-tree-for-ingit-adopters.md]
* [211-table-of-contents|211-table-of-contents.md]
* [253-table-of-contents|253-table-of-contents.md]


h2. Упоминается в

* [Вакансии Anthropic — Анализ по кластерам|../README.md]


h2. Связанные документы

* [Appendix B: Sub-Agent Registry Schema (Sketch)|270-appendix-b-sub-agent-registry-schema-sketch.md] _37%_
* [Table of Contents|253-table-of-contents.md] _29%_
* [Appendix A: Decision Tree for InGit Adopters|321-appendix-a-decision-tree-for-ingit-adopters.md] _29%_
* [Table of Contents|211-table-of-contents.md] _25%_
* [Appendix C: Quick-Start Architecture for SGB Advocate Colleague|228-appendix-c-quick-start-architecture-for-sgb-advoca.md] _25%_
* [Содержание|326-содержание.md] _25%_
* [Глоссарий понятий|../CONCEPTS.md] _25%_
* [Table of Contents|137-table-of-contents.md] _21%_
