{info:title=Источник}
Сгенерировано из: {{docs/02-anthropic-vacancies/277-what-s-missing-layer-b.md}}
Дата: 2026-04-29
{info}

h1. What's Missing — Layer B


h2. Содержание

* [What's Missing — Layer B|#whats-missing-layer-b]
* [Упоминается в|#упоминается-в]
* [Упоминается в|#упоминается-в]
* [Связанные документы|#связанные-документы]
* [Связанные документы|#связанные-документы]

----



{quote}_Абстракт_ (авто){quote}
>
{quote}🎯 _Проблема:_ What's Missing — Layer B Between chat and repository, there should exist Layer B: an --- What's Missing — Layer B Between chat and repository, there should exist Layer B: an intell{quote}
{quote}✅ _Результат:_ Documents could be versioned, with diffs shown, but without the cultural overhead of pull requests and code review processes.{quote}
{quote}🏷️ _Ключевые слова:_ {{layer}}, {{could}}, {{would}}, {{anthropic}}, {{vacancies}}, {{specific}}, {{repository}}, {{project}}{quote}
>



{quote}Between chat and repository, there should exist Layer B: an{quote}

----





h2. What's Missing — Layer B

Between chat and repository, there should exist Layer B: an 
intellectual workspace for project development.

What would Layer B look like, ideally?

It would maintain the _fluid creativity_ of chat while adding 
the _structural stability_ of repository. It would allow 
_branching exploration_ without losing context. It would 
preserve _specific points_ that can be revisited and developed 
further. It would support _AI collaboration_ as a first-class 
operation, not as an external tool.

Concretely, Layer B would offer:

_Threading and branching._ From any message in a discussion, 
the user could create a branch — a sub-thread that explores 
an idea further while preserving the parent. Branches could 
be merged back, abandoned, or remain as alternate developments.

_Annotation on documents._ Specific sections of documents 
could be annotated with comments. Comments could be threaded. 
Other AI agents (or human collaborators) could respond to 
comments. Annotations would persist across document versions.

_Cross-references._ Documents and discussion threads could 
link to each other explicitly. A reference from Document 7 to 
Document 6 would be a real link, not just text. Following the 
link would show context — the surrounding section in the target.

_Versioning without code-orientation._ Documents could be 
versioned, with diffs shown, but without the cultural overhead 
of pull requests and code review processes. Edits could be 
collaborative, with AI assistance integrated.

_AI collaboration as primary operation._ Each thread, each 
document, each annotation could be developed in collaboration 
with AI. The AI would have access to the full context of the 
project — not just the current message, but the entire web 
of related materials.

_Promotion workflow._ Content developed in Layer B could be 
promoted to Layer C (committed to repository) when stable 
enough. Content from Layer A (chat) could be promoted to Layer 
B when worth preserving for further development.

_Bidirectional flow._ Promotion is not one-way. Material 
in Layer C could be brought back to Layer B for further 
development, then re-promoted. Material in Layer B could be 
extracted to chat for fresh exploration with reduced context.

This is the infrastructure that doesn't exist as a unified 
product.

----



----

_Похожие документы:_
* [280-the-specific-case-in-front-of-us|280-the-specific-case-in-front-of-us.md] (сходство 0.16)
* [276-the-two-layer-stack-as-it-exists|276-the-two-layer-stack-as-it-exists.md] (сходство 0.16)
* [279-existing-approximations|279-existing-approximations.md] (сходство 0.16)




----

_Смотрите также:_
* [280-the-specific-case-in-front-of-us|280-the-specific-case-in-front-of-us.md]
* [276-the-two-layer-stack-as-it-exists|276-the-two-layer-stack-as-it-exists.md]
* [279-existing-approximations|279-existing-approximations.md]
* [284-practical-recommendations-for-the-current-project|284-practical-recommendations-for-the-current-project.md]


h2. Упоминается в

* [7. Application Domains|218-7-application-domains.md]
* [Existing Approximations|279-existing-approximations.md]
* [Practical Recommendations for the Current Project|284-practical-recommendations-for-the-current-project.md]
* [The Recursive Insight|281-the-recursive-insight.md]
* [The Specific Case in Front of Us|280-the-specific-case-in-front-of-us.md]
* [The Two-Layer Stack As It Exists|276-the-two-layer-stack-as-it-exists.md]
* [What Industry Will Likely Build|282-what-industry-will-likely-build.md]
* [What This Document Doesn't Solve|283-what-this-document-doesn-t-solve.md]
* [Why This Document Exists|275-why-this-document-exists.md]
* [Вакансии Anthropic — Анализ по кластерам|README.md]
h2. Упоминается в

* [Вакансии Anthropic — Анализ по кластерам|../README.md]


h2. Связанные документы

* [The Specific Case in Front of Us|280-the-specific-case-in-front-of-us.md] _53%_
* [The Two-Layer Stack As It Exists|276-the-two-layer-stack-as-it-exists.md] _37%_
* [Practical Recommendations for the Current Project|284-practical-recommendations-for-the-current-project.md] _37%_
* [Why This Document Exists|275-why-this-document-exists.md] _29%_
* [Existing Approximations|279-existing-approximations.md] _29%_
* [What This Document Doesn't Solve|283-what-this-document-doesn-t-solve.md] _21%_
* [7. Practical First Steps This Month|315-7-practical-first-steps-this-month.md] _21%_
* [Why This Hasn't Been Built|278-why-this-hasn-t-been-built.md] _17%_
h2. Связанные документы

* [The Two-Layer Stack As It Exists|276-the-two-layer-stack-as-it-exists.md] _37%_
* [The Specific Case in Front of Us|280-the-specific-case-in-front-of-us.md] _37%_
* [Practical Recommendations for the Current Project|284-practical-recommendations-for-the-current-project.md] _37%_
* [Why This Document Exists|275-why-this-document-exists.md] _29%_
* [Acknowledgments|286-acknowledgments.md] _25%_
* [Why This Hasn't Been Built|278-why-this-hasn-t-been-built.md] _21%_
* [What This Document Doesn't Solve|283-what-this-document-doesn-t-solve.md] _21%_
* [References|287-references.md] _21%_
