{info:title=Источник}
Сгенерировано из: {{docs/02-anthropic-vacancies/283-what-this-document-doesn-t-solve.md}}
Дата: 2026-04-29
{info}

h1. What This Document Doesn't Solve


{quote}This document identifies a problem. It does not propose a{quote}

----





h2. What This Document Doesn't Solve

This document identifies a problem. It does not propose a 
solution.

It does not specify Layer B in detail.
It does not provide implementation roadmap.
It does not commit to building anything.
It does not predict which existing player will fill the gap.

It documents the problem so it can be referenced. It surveys 
existing approximations so they can be combined intelligently. 
It points at the recursive possibility (Nautilus extending 
itself) without committing to it.

This is intentional. The seven preceding documents were 
architectural specifications proposing concrete things. This 
one is an inquiry document, naming a missing layer without 
specifying what should fill it.

If the author or readers want to develop solutions, this 
document provides framing. It does not provide answers.

----



----

_Похожие документы:_
* [307-abstract|307-abstract.md] (сходство 0.14)
* [275-why-this-document-exists|275-why-this-document-exists.md] (сходство 0.12)
* [286-acknowledgments|286-acknowledgments.md] (сходство 0.11)




----

_Смотрите также:_
* [275-why-this-document-exists|275-why-this-document-exists.md]
* [286-acknowledgments|286-acknowledgments.md]
* [307-abstract|307-abstract.md]
* [285-closing|285-closing.md]


h2. Упоминается в

* [Вакансии Anthropic — Анализ по кластерам|../README.md]


h2. Связанные документы

* [Why This Document Exists|275-why-this-document-exists.md] _29%_
* [The Two-Layer Stack As It Exists|276-the-two-layer-stack-as-it-exists.md] _29%_
* [Acknowledgments|286-acknowledgments.md] _29%_
* [1. The Cowork Discovery and Why It Changes Everything|309-1-the-cowork-discovery-and-why-it-changes-everythi.md] _29%_
* [Acknowledgments|267-acknowledgments.md] _25%_
* [Practical Recommendations for the Current Project|284-practical-recommendations-for-the-current-project.md] _25%_
* [What's Missing — Layer B|277-what-s-missing-layer-b.md] _21%_
* [Why This Hasn't Been Built|278-why-this-hasn-t-been-built.md] _21%_
