{info:title=Источник}
Сгенерировано из: {{docs/02-anthropic-vacancies/284-practical-recommendations-for-the-current-project.md}}
Дата: 2026-04-29
{info}

h1. Practical Recommendations for the Current Project


{quote}For the seven-document Nautilus / OKWF project specifically,{quote}

----





h2. Practical Recommendations for the Current Project

For the seven-document Nautilus / OKWF project specifically, 
practical next steps:

_Step 1 — Commit documents to repository._ All seven 
documents should be saved to {{nautilus/docs/}} as Markdown 
files. This creates stable reference artifacts.

_Step 2 — Create README that links them._ A top-level 
README explains the relationships between documents, in what 
order to read them, what each addresses. This serves as 
poor-man's cross-reference index.

_Step 3 — Open GitHub Discussions._ Enable Discussions on 
the Nautilus repository. Create initial categories: 
Architecture, Implementation, Pilots, Theory, Community. 
This provides threaded discussion infrastructure.

_Step 4 — Create initial discussion threads._ For each 
document, create one Discussion thread inviting comments. 
This makes the documents discussable.

_Step 5 — Use Anthropic Project for ongoing work._ Create 
a Nautilus Project in Anthropic. Upload documents as Project 
Knowledge. Use this Project for AI-assisted development of 
new aspects without losing context.

_Step 6 — Cross-reference informally._ When citing one 
document from another, use clear markdown references with 
file paths. Accept that these may break with restructuring; 
the loss is acceptable.

_Step 7 — Track evolution in CHANGELOG._ Each document 
should have a changelog noting major revisions. This 
preserves history without requiring sophisticated versioning.

_Step 8 — Periodic snapshot for posterity._ When natural 
milestones reached, tag the repository state. This creates 
restorable points.

This is not Layer B. It is **best-available approximation 
using current tools**. It will work. It will have friction. 
The friction will be lower than no infrastructure at all.

----



----

_Похожие документы:_
* [280-the-specific-case-in-front-of-us|280-the-specific-case-in-front-of-us.md] (сходство 0.16)
* [277-what-s-missing-layer-b|277-what-s-missing-layer-b.md] (сходство 0.15)
* [279-existing-approximations|279-existing-approximations.md] (сходство 0.14)




----

_Смотрите также:_
* [280-the-specific-case-in-front-of-us|280-the-specific-case-in-front-of-us.md]
* [277-what-s-missing-layer-b|277-what-s-missing-layer-b.md]
* [285-closing|285-closing.md]
* [279-existing-approximations|279-existing-approximations.md]


h2. Упоминается в

* [Вакансии Anthropic — Анализ по кластерам|../README.md]


h2. Связанные документы

* [The Two-Layer Stack As It Exists|276-the-two-layer-stack-as-it-exists.md] _42%_
* [What's Missing — Layer B|277-what-s-missing-layer-b.md] _37%_
* [The Specific Case in Front of Us|280-the-specific-case-in-front-of-us.md] _37%_
* [7. Practical First Steps This Month|315-7-practical-first-steps-this-month.md] _33%_
* [1. The Cowork Discovery and Why It Changes Everything|309-1-the-cowork-discovery-and-why-it-changes-everythi.md] _29%_
* [Existing Approximations|279-existing-approximations.md] _25%_
* [The Recursive Insight|281-the-recursive-insight.md] _25%_
* [What Industry Will Likely Build|282-what-industry-will-likely-build.md] _25%_
