{info:title=Источник}
Сгенерировано из: {{docs/02-anthropic-vacancies/287-references.md}}
Дата: 2026-04-29
{info}

h1. References


{quote}_Абстракт_ (авто){quote}
>
{quote}🎯 _Проблема:_ AI Collaboration Infrastructure - Anthropic Projects documentation (current) - Microsoft Copilot Studio (different approach to similar problem) - Various multi-agent frameworks (La{quote}
{quote}🔧 _Подход:_ (Zettelkasten method, foundational for modern personal knowledge management.) - Andy Matuschak (ongoing).{quote}
{quote}🏷️ _Ключевые слова:_ {{anthropic}}, {{references}}, {{vacancies}}, {{annotation}}, {{knowledge}}, {{management}}, {{documents}}, {{series}}{quote}
>



h2. Contents

* [References|#references]
  * [Threading and Annotation|#threading-and-annotation]
  * [Knowledge Management|#knowledge-management]
  * [AI Collaboration Infrastructure|#ai-collaboration-infrastructure]
  * [Earlier Companion Documents in This Series|#earlier-companion-documents-in-this-series]



{quote}The references for this document are sparser than for the{quote}

----





h2. References

The references for this document are sparser than for the 
applied papers, because the document is exploratory rather 
than specifying. Key relevant work includes:

h3. Threading and Annotation

* Hypothesis project (https://web.hypothes.is/) — open 
  source web annotation
* Discourse forum software (https://www.discourse.org/) — 
  modern threaded forum
* Federated Wiki experiments by Ward Cunningham — alternative 
  models for collaborative writing

h3. Knowledge Management

* Sönke Ahrens (2017). _How to Take Smart Notes_. Cambridge 
  University Press. (Zettelkasten method, foundational for 
  modern personal knowledge management.)
* Andy Matuschak (ongoing). Working notes on tools for thought.

h3. AI Collaboration Infrastructure

* Anthropic Projects documentation (current)
* Microsoft Copilot Studio (different approach to similar 
  problem)
* Various multi-agent frameworks (LangChain, CrewAI, [AutoGen|../docs/02-anthropic-vacancies/01-интегральный-анализ-профиля-svend4.md])

h3. Earlier Companion Documents in This Series

Documents 1-7 of the Nautilus / OKWF series, as listed in the 
header of this document.

----



----

_Похожие документы:_
* [302-ссылки|docs/02-anthropic-vacancies/302-ссылки.md] (сходство 0.18)
* [320-references|docs/02-anthropic-vacancies/320-references.md] (сходство 0.14)
* [274-the-missing-middle-layer-between-chat-and-code|docs/02-anthropic-vacancies/274-the-missing-middle-layer-between-chat-and-code.md] (сходство 0.14)




----

_Смотрите также:_
* [302-ссылки|docs/02-anthropic-vacancies/302-ссылки.md]
* [274-the-missing-middle-layer-between-chat-and-code|docs/02-anthropic-vacancies/274-the-missing-middle-layer-between-chat-and-code.md]
* [306-with-anthropic-s-cowork-platform|docs/02-anthropic-vacancies/306-with-anthropic-s-cowork-platform.md]
* [251-ai-support-through-configurable-specialist-ensembl|docs/02-anthropic-vacancies/251-ai-support-through-configurable-specialist-ensembl.md]

