{info:title=Источник}
Сгенерировано из: {{docs/02-anthropic-vacancies/307-abstract.md}}
Дата: 2026-04-29
{info}

h1. Abstract


{quote}_Абстракт_ (авто){quote}
>
{quote}🎯 _Проблема:_ InGit should position as the structure layer that Cowork needs — substrate for sustained, organized, recoverable, shareable AI-collaborative work.{quote}
{quote}🔧 _Подход:_ The document was theoretical, naming the problem without specifying solutions.{quote}
{quote}✅ _Результат:_ Their integration creates something neither could provide separately: a structured, versioned, AI-augmented intellectual workspace.{quote}
{quote}🏷️ _Ключевые слова:_ {{cowork}}, {{anthropic}}, {{ingit}}, {{vacancies}}, {{layer}}, {{architecture}}, {{platform}}, {{document}}{quote}
>



{quote}Document 2.3 identified Layer B — the missing infrastructure{quote}

----





h2. Abstract

Document 2.3 identified Layer B — the missing infrastructure 
between chat and code repositories — as a fundamental gap in 
AI-collaborative intellectual work. The document was 
theoretical, naming the problem without specifying solutions. 
This document, written with knowledge of the author's existing 
InGit project and Anthropic's Cowork platform (launched 
January 2026), proposes a specific implementation path.

We argue that InGit and Cowork together substantially close 
the Layer B gap, with neither alone sufficient. InGit provides 
_structured workspace substrate_ — file organization, YAML 
metadata, Git-native versioning, encryption, offline-first 
operation. Cowork provides _agentic intelligence layer_ — 
persistent memory, multi-step task execution, MCP integration, 
scheduled tasks, computer use. Their integration creates 
something neither could provide separately: a structured, 
versioned, AI-augmented intellectual workspace.

We propose specific integration paths in order of accessibility 
(from immediate to longer-term), identify which InGit features 
matter most when paired with Cowork, refine the InGit roadmap 
based on this positioning, and discuss strategic implications 
for the broader Nautilus / OKWF project.

The central insight: InGit should not compete with Cowork. 
InGit should position as **the structure layer that Cowork 
needs** — substrate for sustained, organized, recoverable, 
shareable AI-collaborative work.

----



----

_Похожие документы:_
* [309-1-the-cowork-discovery-and-why-it-changes-everythi|309-1-the-cowork-discovery-and-why-it-changes-everythi.md] (сходство 0.19)
* [306-with-anthropic-s-cowork-platform|306-with-anthropic-s-cowork-platform.md] (сходство 0.17)
* [312-4-the-symbiotic-architecture|312-4-the-symbiotic-architecture.md] (сходство 0.16)




----

_Смотрите также:_
* [309-1-the-cowork-discovery-and-why-it-changes-everythi|309-1-the-cowork-discovery-and-why-it-changes-everythi.md]
* [306-with-anthropic-s-cowork-platform|306-with-anthropic-s-cowork-platform.md]
* [312-4-the-symbiotic-architecture|312-4-the-symbiotic-architecture.md]
* [308-table-of-contents|308-table-of-contents.md]


h2. Упоминается в

* [1. The Cowork Discovery and Why It Changes Everything|309-1-the-cowork-discovery-and-why-it-changes-everythi.md]
* [10. Strategic Positioning|318-10-strategic-positioning.md]
* [2. What Cowork Provides That InGit Doesn't Need to Build|310-2-what-cowork-provides-that-ingit-doesn-t-need-to-.md]
* [4. The Symbiotic Architecture|312-4-the-symbiotic-architecture.md]
* [7. Practical First Steps This Month|315-7-practical-first-steps-this-month.md]
* [8. Implications for Nautilus and OKWF|316-8-implications-for-nautilus-and-okwf.md]
* [A Practical Path to Layer B Through Symbiotic Integration|305-a-practical-path-to-layer-b-through-symbiotic-inte.md]
* [Appendix B: Comparison Matrix|322-appendix-b-comparison-matrix.md]
* [Appendix C: Sample InGit MCP Server Tool Specifications|323-appendix-c-sample-ingit-mcp-server-tool-specificat.md]
* [What Industry Will Likely Build|282-what-industry-will-likely-build.md]
* [What This Document Doesn't Solve|283-what-this-document-doesn-t-solve.md]
* [Вакансии Anthropic — Анализ по кластерам|README.md]
h2. Упоминается в

* [Вакансии Anthropic — Анализ по кластерам|../README.md]


h2. Связанные документы

* [Вакансии Anthropic — Анализ по кластерам|README.md] _29%_
* [1. The Cowork Discovery and Why It Changes Everything|309-1-the-cowork-discovery-and-why-it-changes-everythi.md] _25%_
* [A Practical Path to Layer B Through Symbiotic Integration|305-a-practical-path-to-layer-b-through-symbiotic-inte.md] _21%_
* [Table of Contents|308-table-of-contents.md] _21%_
* [8. Implications for Nautilus and OKWF|316-8-implications-for-nautilus-and-okwf.md] _21%_
* [Appendix C: Sample InGit MCP Server Tool Specifications|323-appendix-c-sample-ingit-mcp-server-tool-specificat.md] _21%_
* [Кластеры тематически близких файлов|../CLUSTERS.md] _21%_
* [Карта происхождения текстов|../SOURCE_MAP.md] _21%_
h2. Связанные документы

* [1. The Cowork Discovery and Why It Changes Everything|309-1-the-cowork-discovery-and-why-it-changes-everythi.md] _29%_
* [8. Implications for Nautilus and OKWF|316-8-implications-for-nautilus-and-okwf.md] _29%_
* [Acknowledgments|319-acknowledgments.md] _29%_
* [Appendix C: Sample InGit MCP Server Tool Specifications|323-appendix-c-sample-ingit-mcp-server-tool-specificat.md] _29%_
* [Abstract|168-abstract.md] _25%_
* [A Practical Path to Layer B Through Symbiotic Integration|305-a-practical-path-to-layer-b-through-symbiotic-inte.md] _25%_
* [Table of Contents|308-table-of-contents.md] _25%_
* [4. The Symbiotic Architecture|312-4-the-symbiotic-architecture.md] _25%_
