{info:title=Источник}
Сгенерировано из: {{docs/02-anthropic-vacancies/314-6-refined-ingit-scope-with-cowork-in-mind.md}}
Дата: 2026-04-29
{info}

h1. 6. Refined InGit Scope with Cowork in Mind

{quote}[!TIP]{quote}
{quote}Этот документ описывает MVP-подход. Начните с него для быстрого прототипа.{quote}




{quote}_Абстракт_ (авто){quote}
>
{quote}🎯 _Проблема:_ --- --- Похожие документы: - 310-2-what-cowork-provides-that-ingit-doesn-t-need-to-(docs/02-anthropic-vacancies/310-2-what-cowork-provides-that-ingit-doesn-t-need-to-.md) (сходство{quote}
{quote}✅ _Результат:_ Net timeline: From 10-16 months to roughly 12 months, with much higher quality result.{quote}
{quote}🏷️ _Ключевые слова:_ {{months}}, {{cowork}}, {{ingit}}, {{phase}}, {{scope}}, {{effort}}, {{provides}}, {{anthropic}}{quote}
>



h2. Contents

* [6. Refined InGit Scope with Cowork in Mind|#6-refined-[ingit](../docs/02-anthropic-vacancies/306-with-anthropic-s-cowork-platform.md]-scope-with-cowork-in-mind)
  * [6.1. New Phase 1 (Months 1-3): Substrate MVP|#61-new-phase-1-months-1-3-substrate-mvp]
  * [6.2. New Phase 2 (Months 3-6): MCP Server|#62-new-phase-2-months-3-6-mcp-server]
  * [6.3. New Phase 3 (Months 6-12): Adoption and Refinement|#63-new-phase-3-months-6-12-adoption-and-refinement]
  * [6.4. Total Reduced Scope|#64-total-reduced-scope]



{quote}The original InGit roadmap (10-16 months to v1.0) reflected{quote}

----





h2. 6. Refined InGit Scope with Cowork in Mind

The original InGit roadmap (10-16 months to v1.0) reflected 
ambition for full standalone product. With Cowork as 
complement, scope can dramatically reduce.

h3. 6.1. New Phase 1 (Months 1-3): Substrate MVP

_Goal_: InGit becomes usable as Cowork substrate.

_Deliverables_:
* Folder structure conventions (already in repository)
* YAML metadata schemas for tasks, documents, wiki pages
* Pre-commit hooks for validation
* Basic encryption for sensitive folders (using age)
* Documentation of conventions
* Examples and templates

_Removed from original Phase 1_:
* Desktop GUI (deferred to "maybe never" given Cowork)
* Database layer (SQLite still useful but secondary)
* Web UI (Cowork is the UI)

_Effort_: Achievable in 3 months by individual developer 
working part-time.

h3. 6.2. New Phase 2 (Months 3-6): MCP Server

_Goal_: InGit operations available to Cowork via MCP.

_Deliverables_:
* {{[ingit|../docs/02-anthropic-vacancies/306-with-anthropic-s-cowork-platform.md]-mcp-server}} Python package
* 15-20 tools covering core operations
* Open source release
* Integration documentation
* Examples for Cowork Projects

_Effort_: 2-3 months for solo developer.

h3. 6.3. New Phase 3 (Months 6-12): Adoption and Refinement

_Goal_: Real-world usage drives improvements.

_Deliverables_:
* Migration tools (Notion, Obsidian, [GitHub|../docs/01-svyazi/03-component-catalog.md])
* Refinements based on user feedback
* Documentation expansion
* Community building

_Effort_: Depends on adoption velocity.

h3. 6.4. Total Reduced Scope

Original plan: 10-16 months to v1.0 with substantial features.
Revised plan: 12 months to mature substrate + MCP integration.

_Removed scope_:
* Desktop GUI: -3 months effort
* Web UI: -2 months effort
* Mobile app: -2 months effort (was implicit)
* Agent infrastructure: -3 months effort (Cowork provides)
* Independent connector ecosystem: -2 months effort

_Net effort reduction_: ~12 months work removed.
_Net timeline_: From 10-16 months to roughly 12 months, with 
much higher quality result.

This is the value of strategic positioning: less work for 
better outcomes.

----



----

_Похожие документы:_
* [310-2-what-cowork-provides-that-[ingit|../docs/02-anthropic-vacancies/306-with-anthropic-s-cowork-platform.md]-doesn-t-need-to-](docs/02-anthropic-vacancies/310-2-what-cowork-provides-that-ingit-doesn-t-need-to-.md) (сходство 0.17)
* [311-3-what-[ingit|../docs/02-anthropic-vacancies/306-with-anthropic-s-cowork-platform.md]-provides-that-cowork-lacks](docs/02-anthropic-vacancies/311-3-what-ingit-provides-that-cowork-lacks.md) (сходство 0.14)
* [313-5-four-integration-paths-in-order-of-accessibility|docs/02-anthropic-vacancies/313-5-four-integration-paths-in-order-of-accessibility.md] (сходство 0.13)




----

_Смотрите также:_
* [310-2-what-cowork-provides-that-[ingit|../docs/02-anthropic-vacancies/306-with-anthropic-s-cowork-platform.md]-doesn-t-need-to-](docs/02-anthropic-vacancies/310-2-what-cowork-provides-that-ingit-doesn-t-need-to-.md)
* [313-5-four-integration-paths-in-order-of-accessibility|docs/02-anthropic-vacancies/313-5-four-integration-paths-in-order-of-accessibility.md]
* [308-table-of-contents|docs/02-anthropic-vacancies/308-table-of-contents.md]
* [311-3-what-[ingit|../docs/02-anthropic-vacancies/306-with-anthropic-s-cowork-platform.md]-provides-that-cowork-lacks](docs/02-anthropic-vacancies/311-3-what-ingit-provides-that-cowork-lacks.md)

