{info:title=Источник}
Сгенерировано из: {{docs/02-anthropic-vacancies/320-references.md}}
Дата: 2026-04-29
{info}

h1. References


h2. Contents

* [References|#references]
  * [Primary External References|#primary-external-references]
  * [MCP Standard|#mcp-standard]
  * [Companion Documents in This Series|#companion-documents-in-this-series]
  * [Related Work|#related-work]



{quote}- Anthropic. (2026, January 12). _Claude Cowork_ [Product{quote}

----





h2. References

h3. Primary External References

* Anthropic. (2026, January 12). _Claude Cowork_ [Product 
  launch]. https://claude.com/product/cowork
* Anthropic. (2026, ongoing). _Cowork Help Center_. 
  https://support.claude.com/en/collections/13345190-cowork
* svend4. (2026, ongoing). _InGit_. 
  https://github.com/svend4/ingit

h3. MCP Standard

* Anthropic. (2024-2026). _Model Context Protocol_ 
  documentation and specifications.

h3. Companion Documents in This Series

All previous documents in the series, as listed in 
acknowledgments above.

h3. Related Work

* D. Richard Hipp. (2007-ongoing). _Fossil_. 
  https://www.fossil-scm.org/
* Various Cowork-Project tutorials and reviews from 2026.

----



----

_Похожие документы:_
* [338-ссылки|338-ссылки.md] (сходство 0.32)
* [306-with-anthropic-s-cowork-platform|306-with-anthropic-s-cowork-platform.md] (сходство 0.17)
* [287-references|287-references.md] (сходство 0.14)




----

_Смотрите также:_
* [338-ссылки|338-ссылки.md]
* [73-portal-protocol-md-v1-1|73-portal-protocol-md-v1-1.md]
* [306-with-anthropic-s-cowork-platform|306-with-anthropic-s-cowork-platform.md]
* [125-readme-mcp-md-инструкция-по-установке|125-readme-mcp-md-инструкция-по-установке.md]


h2. Упоминается в

* [References|147-references.md]
* [References|287-references.md]
* [Вакансии Anthropic — Анализ по кластерам|README.md]
* [Ссылки|338-ссылки.md]
* [Что ты МОЖЕШЬ делать|351-что-ты-можешь-делать.md]
h2. Упоминается в

* [Вакансии Anthropic — Анализ по кластерам|../README.md]


h2. Связанные документы

* [References|287-references.md] _29%_
* [Ссылки|338-ссылки.md] _25%_
* [Acknowledgments|146-acknowledgments.md] _17%_
* [References|183-references.md] _17%_
* [References|225-references.md] _17%_
* [AI Support Through Configurable Specialist Ensembles|251-ai-support-through-configurable-specialist-ensembl.md] _17%_
* [Closing|285-closing.md] _17%_
* [Acknowledgments|286-acknowledgments.md] _17%_
h2. Связанные документы

* [References|287-references.md] _25%_
* [Ссылки|338-ссылки.md] _25%_
* [Acknowledgments|146-acknowledgments.md] _21%_
* [References|183-references.md] _21%_
* [References|225-references.md] _21%_
* [Why This Document Exists|275-why-this-document-exists.md] _21%_
* [Closing|285-closing.md] _21%_
* [Acknowledgments|286-acknowledgments.md] _21%_
