{info:title=Источник}
Сгенерировано из: {{docs/02-anthropic-vacancies/321-appendix-a-decision-tree-for-ingit-adopters.md}}
Дата: 2026-04-29
{info}

h1. Appendix A: Decision Tree for InGit Adopters


{quote}Quick reference for users evaluating InGit + Cowork:{quote}

----





h2. Appendix A: Decision Tree for InGit Adopters

Quick reference for users evaluating InGit + Cowork:

{code}
Do you need structured workspace beyond plain folders?
├── No → Standard Cowork Project sufficient. Don't add 
│        complexity.
└── Yes →
    Do you have Claude Pro/Max subscription?
    ├── No → InGit alone valuable. Cowork later when 
    │        possible.
    └── Yes →
        Are you comfortable with Git, YAML, command line?
        ├── No → InGit may be too technical. Consider Notion 
        │        with custom database.
        └── Yes →
            Do you need offline operation or privacy?
            ├── Yes → InGit + Cowork combination ideal.
            └── No → InGit + Cowork still useful but Notion 
                     might serve.
{code}

This is rough heuristic. Actual decisions depend on specific 
needs.

----



----

_Похожие документы:_
* [270-appendix-b-sub-agent-registry-schema-sketch|270-appendix-b-sub-agent-registry-schema-sketch.md] (сходство 0.13)
* [322-appendix-b-comparison-matrix|322-appendix-b-comparison-matrix.md] (сходство 0.10)




----

_Смотрите также:_
* [270-appendix-b-sub-agent-registry-schema-sketch|270-appendix-b-sub-agent-registry-schema-sketch.md]
* [28-appendix-a-minimal-working-example|28-appendix-a-minimal-working-example.md]
* [271-appendix-c-configuration-template-example|271-appendix-c-configuration-template-example.md]
* [322-appendix-b-comparison-matrix|322-appendix-b-comparison-matrix.md]


h2. Упоминается в

* [Вакансии Anthropic — Анализ по кластерам|../README.md]


h2. Связанные документы

* [Appendix B: Sub-Agent Registry Schema (Sketch)|270-appendix-b-sub-agent-registry-schema-sketch.md] _48%_
* [Appendix C: Configuration Template Example|271-appendix-c-configuration-template-example.md] _29%_
* [Table of Contents|308-table-of-contents.md] _25%_
* [Appendix B: Comparison Matrix|322-appendix-b-comparison-matrix.md] _25%_
* [Что ты ВСЕГДА делаешь|360-что-ты-всегда-делаешь.md] _25%_
* [Содержание|326-содержание.md] _21%_
* [Кластеры тематически близких файлов|../CLUSTERS.md] _21%_
* [Качество абзацев|../PARAGRAPH_QUALITY.md] _21%_
