{info:title=Источник}
Сгенерировано из: {{docs/02-anthropic-vacancies/52-author-contact.md}}
Дата: 2026-04-29
{info}

h1. Author & Contact


{quote}_Contributors:_ svend4 + claude (Claude Code агент, ранние{quote}

----





h2. Author & Contact

_Maintainer:_ svend4

_Contributors:_ svend4 + claude (Claude Code агент, ранние 
коммиты)

_Контакт:_ Issues в {{github.com/svend4/pro2}}

_Лицензия:_
* Концептуальная база: [? уточнить]
* YiJing-Transformer код: [? уточнить — MIT предпочтительно для 
  reproducibility]
* Model weights: [? уточнить — Apache-2.0 типично для ML artefacts]

----



----

_Похожие документы:_
* [62-author-contact|62-author-contact.md] (сходство 0.37)
* [42-author-contact|42-author-contact.md] (сходство 0.31)
* [135-a-formal-model-for-human-ai-collaboration-in-distr|135-a-formal-model-for-human-ai-collaboration-in-distr.md] (сходство 0.16)




----

_Смотрите также:_
* [62-author-contact|62-author-contact.md]
* [42-author-contact|42-author-contact.md]
* [73-portal-protocol-md-v1-1|73-portal-protocol-md-v1-1.md]
* [152-ai-coordinated-infrastructure-for-distributed-expe|152-ai-coordinated-infrastructure-for-distributed-expe.md]


h2. Упоминается в

* [13. Reference Implementation|25-13-reference-implementation.md]
* [18. Reference Implementation|93-18-reference-implementation.md]
* [A Formal Model for Human-AI Collaboration in Distributed Knowledge Work|135-a-formal-model-for-human-ai-collaboration-in-distr.md]
* [AI-Coordinated Infrastructure for Distributed Expert Contribution|152-ai-coordinated-infrastructure-for-distributed-expe.md]
* [Author & Contact|42-author-contact.md]
* [Author & Contact|62-author-contact.md]
* [Content Overview|48-content-overview.md]
* [PORTAL-PROTOCOL.md|03-portal-protocol-md.md]
* [PORTAL-PROTOCOL.md v1.1|73-portal-protocol-md-v1-1.md]
* [References|147-references.md]
* [Вакансии Anthropic — Анализ по кластерам|README.md]
* [Кто ты|345-кто-ты.md]
h2. Упоминается в

* [Вакансии Anthropic — Анализ по кластерам|../README.md]


h2. Связанные документы

* [PORTAL-PROTOCOL.md|03-portal-protocol-md.md] _53%_
* [AI-Coordinated Infrastructure for Distributed Expert Contribution|152-ai-coordinated-infrastructure-for-distributed-expe.md] _48%_
* [PORTAL-PROTOCOL.md v1.1|73-portal-protocol-md-v1-1.md] _48%_
* [A Formal Model for Human-AI Collaboration in Distributed Knowledge Work|135-a-formal-model-for-human-ai-collaboration-in-distr.md] _33%_
* [AI-Mediated Representation for Underrepresented Experts and Vulnerable Populations|167-ai-mediated-representation-for-underrepresented-ex.md] _25%_
* [13. Reference Implementation|25-13-reference-implementation.md] _25%_
* [Author & Contact|42-author-contact.md] _25%_
* [Author & Contact|62-author-contact.md] _25%_
h2. Связанные документы

* [AI-Coordinated Infrastructure for Distributed Expert Contribution|152-ai-coordinated-infrastructure-for-distributed-expe.md] _37%_
* [PORTAL-PROTOCOL.md v1.1|73-portal-protocol-md-v1-1.md] _37%_
* [13. Reference Implementation|25-13-reference-implementation.md] _33%_
* [18. Reference Implementation|93-18-reference-implementation.md] _33%_
* [A Formal Model for Human-AI Collaboration in Distributed Knowledge Work|135-a-formal-model-for-human-ai-collaboration-in-distr.md] _29%_
* [AI-Mediated Representation for Underrepresented Experts and Vulnerable Populations|167-ai-mediated-representation-for-underrepresented-ex.md] _29%_
* [Author & Contact|42-author-contact.md] _29%_
* [Author & Contact|62-author-contact.md] _29%_
