{info:title=Источник}
Сгенерировано из: {{docs/obsidian/02-anthropic-vacancies/103-appendix-b-change-log.md}}
Дата: 2026-04-29
{info}

----
title: "Appendix B: Change Log"
tags:
  * rag
  * architecture
  * anthropic-vacancies
date: 2026-04-29
----

h1. Appendix B: Change Log


h2. Contents

* [Appendix B: Change Log|#appendix-b-change-log]
  * [v1.1.0-draft (2026-04-19)|#v110-draft-2026-04-19]
  * [v1.0.0-draft (2026-04 earlier)|#v100-draft-2026-04-earlier]



{quote}- _New_: Q6 as normative concept (section 8, ADR-002){quote}

----





h2. Appendix B: Change Log

h3. v1.1.0-draft (2026-04-19)

* _New_: Q6 as normative concept (section 8, ADR-002)
* _New_: Five onboarding paths formalized (section 12, ADR-003)
* _New_: REST API contract mandatory (section 13)
* _New_: SDK contract informative (section 14)
* _New_: MCP extension informative (section 16)
* _Changed_: {{is_fallback}} field added to [[01-интегральный-анализ-профиля-svend4|PortalEntry]] (normative)
* _Changed_: Consensus structure extended with {{coverage_with_fallback}}
* _Changed_: Passport schema formalized via {{passport_schema.json}}
* _Clarified_: Naming conventions (passport by format, not by repo)
* _Clarified_: Timeout RECOMMENDED 5 seconds (was 10)

h3. v1.0.0-draft (2026-04 earlier)

* Initial draft published

----



----

_Похожие документы:_
* [[91-16-mcp-extension-informative]] (сходство 0.13)
* [[82-7-portalentry-structure]] (сходство 0.11)
* [[93-18-reference-implementation]] (сходство 0.10)




----

_Смотрите также:_
* [[91-16-mcp-extension-informative]]
* [[22-10-queryresult-structure]]
* [[28-appendix-a-minimal-working-example]]
* [[93-18-reference-implementation]]


h2. Упоминается в

* [[22-10-queryresult-structure|10. QueryResult Structure]]
* [[86-11-relevance-ranking|11. Relevance Ranking]]
* [[89-14-sdk-contract-informative|14. SDK Contract (Informative)]]
* [[91-16-mcp-extension-informative|16. MCP Extension (Informative)]]
* [[81-6-adapter-interface|6. Adapter Interface]]
* [[83-8-q6-space-normative|8. Q6 Space (Normative)]]
* [[104-appendix-c-references|Appendix C: References]]
* [[README|Вакансии Anthropic — Анализ по кластерам]]
* [[128-доступные-инструменты|Доступные инструменты]]
h2. Упоминается в

* [[README|Вакансии Anthropic — Анализ по кластерам]]


h2. Связанные документы

* [[89-14-sdk-contract-informative|14. SDK Contract (Informative)]] _29%_
* [[128-доступные-инструменты|Доступные инструменты]] _21%_
* [[22-10-queryresult-structure|10. QueryResult Structure]] _21%_
* [[81-6-adapter-interface|6. Adapter Interface]] _21%_
* [[93-18-reference-implementation|18. Reference Implementation]] _21%_
* [[104-appendix-c-references|Appendix C: References]] _17%_
h2. Связанные документы

* [[104-appendix-c-references|Appendix C: References]] _25%_
* [[22-10-queryresult-structure|10. QueryResult Structure]] _25%_
* [[89-14-sdk-contract-informative|14. SDK Contract (Informative)]] _25%_
* [[91-16-mcp-extension-informative|16. MCP Extension (Informative)]] _25%_
* [[128-доступные-инструменты|Доступные инструменты]] _21%_
* [[34-appendix-b-change-log|Appendix B: Change Log]] _21%_
* [[81-6-adapter-interface|6. Adapter Interface]] _21%_
* [[83-8-q6-space-normative|8. Q6 Space (Normative)]] _21%_
