{info:title=Источник}
Сгенерировано из: {{docs/obsidian/02-anthropic-vacancies/140-3-three-inter-layer-protocols.md}}
Дата: 2026-04-29
{info}

----
title: "3. Three Inter-Layer Protocols"
tags:
  * anthropic-vacancies
date: 2026-04-29
----

h1. 3. Three Inter-Layer Protocols

{quote}[!IMPORTANT]{quote}
{quote}Ключевой документ для понимания архитектуры. Рекомендуется прочитать в первую очередь.{quote}




{quote}The architecture requires three formalized protocols between layers.{quote}

----


h2. Содержание

* [3. Three Inter-Layer Protocols|#3-three-inter-layer-protocols]
  * [3.1. Protocol 1 — Human Conducts Assistants|#31-protocol-1-human-conducts-assistants]
  * [3.2. Protocol 2 — Meta-Agent Coordinates Nodes|#32-protocol-2-meta-agent-coordinates-nodes]
  * [3.3. Protocol 3 — Assistant-to-Meta Negotiation|#33-protocol-3-assistant-to-meta-negotiation]
  * [3.4. Protocol Interactions|#34-protocol-interactions]

----






h2. 3. Three Inter-Layer Protocols

The architecture requires three formalized protocols between layers. 
Each has specific semantics, message formats, and failure modes.

h3. 3.1. Protocol 1 — Human Conducts Assistants

_Direction:_ Node → Assistants (downward in lower triangle)

_Semantics._ The Node issues tasks to assistants, reviews 
outputs, integrates results. This is the current state of 
personal AI assistant workflows and is well-developed.

_Existing implementations:_ Claude Code, Cursor, Copilot 
Workspace, Continue.dev, ChatGPT in IDE plugins.

_Message format._ Natural language prompts with structured 
context (file references, code selections, project files). 
Responses as text, code, or structured data.

_Failure modes:_ Ambiguous prompts, context overflow, 
hallucinations. These are well-studied and mitigation strategies 
exist.

_Extensions needed for Double-Triangle:_ Assistants must be 
aware of _team context markers_ — annotations indicating which 
parts of their output affect team-visible deliverables versus 
purely personal work. This allows invariant 2 (Assistant Autonomy, 
Node Authority) to be enforced.

h3. 3.2. Protocol 2 — Meta-Agent Coordinates Nodes

_Direction:_ Meta-agent M → Nodes (downward in upper triangle)

_Semantics._ M assigns tasks to Nodes, receives deliverables, 
integrates team-level outputs. M does not see internal Node 
processes, only public deliverables.

_Existing implementations:_ Partial, fragmented. Jira with AI 
triage, Linear with AI suggestions, GitHub Projects with 
automation. None implement the full protocol, all require 
significant human management intervention.

_Message format._ Structured tasks with:
* Description
* Deliverable specification (what constitutes "done")
* Dependencies on other Nodes' deliverables
* Deadline
* Priority
* Assignee

_Failure modes:_ Task assignment mismatches (wrong Node, wrong 
skill), deadline conflicts, scope creep, dependency deadlocks. 
These are classical project management challenges adapted to AI 
orchestration.

_Extensions needed for Double-Triangle:_ M must respect 
invariant 3 (Meta-Agent Transparency, Not Omniscience) — decisions 
must cite only team-context reasoning, never reference Nodes' 
personal data. Requires careful design to prevent information leakage.

h3. 3.3. Protocol 3 — Assistant-to-Meta Negotiation

_Direction:_ Assistant A of Node N → Meta-agent M (upward across triangles)

_Semantics._ This is the _novel protocol_. When an assistant 
in N's lower triangle requires information or coordination that 
involves other Nodes, it does not ping those Nodes directly. 
Instead, it issues a structured query that travels: A → N → M → 
N' → A' → response back through the chain.

_Existing implementations:_ None in production systems. Closest 
analog: GitHub Copilot Workspace can see other team members' 
public code but cannot negotiate with their assistants. 
Anthropic's Managed Agents API moves toward this but does not 
implement full cross-triangle negotiation.

_Message format._ Three message types:

* _Query messages:_ "Assistant requires information X; X is 
  outside current Node's scope; routing request via meta-agent"
* _Notification messages:_ "Assistant detected conflict with 
  team context; escalating to meta-agent for resolution"  
* _Proposal messages:_ "Assistant proposes decision D affecting 
  multiple Nodes; requesting meta-agent consensus routing"

_Routing semantics._ Messages are routed by the meta-agent 
based on:
* Ownership: which Node owns the relevant artifact
* Expertise: which Node has the required domain knowledge
* Availability: which Node is currently responsive

_Failure modes:_ Routing loops, context fragmentation (details 
lost in translation), escalation spirals where every conflict 
reaches human review. These are genuinely unsolved and require 
empirical development.

_Why this protocol matters._ Without Protocol 3, humans become 
routing bottlenecks. Every cross-Node coordination requires 
humans to manually translate from their assistants' findings to 
team context, wait for replies, translate back. This adds hours 
or days to each interaction. Protocol 3 reduces this to minutes 
or seconds.

h3. 3.4. Protocol Interactions

The three protocols do not operate in isolation. Common interaction 
patterns include:

_Escalation chain._ Assistant detects issue (Protocol 3 → M) → 
M evaluates (internal) → M modifies task assignment (Protocol 2) 
→ Node receives updated task (Protocol 2) → Node redirects 
assistant (Protocol 1).

_Context propagation._ M updates team context (Protocol 2 to all 
Nodes) → Each Node propagates relevant updates to their assistants 
(Protocol 1) → Assistants adjust behavior accordingly.

_Cross-Node handoff._ Assistant of N_1 completes artifact 
(Protocol 1) → Node N_1 reviews and approves (Protocol 1) → N_1 
submits to M (Protocol 2) → M routes to N_2 (Protocol 2) → N_2's 
assistant picks up (Protocol 1).

These patterns are analogous to message-passing concurrency models 
in distributed systems, adapted for human-AI hybrid execution.

----



----

_Похожие документы:_
* [[138-1-why-single-triangle-models-are-incomplete]] (сходство 0.18)
* [[139-2-the-double-triangle-architecture]] (сходство 0.17)
* [[144-7-open-questions]] (сходство 0.15)




----

_Смотрите также:_
* [[139-2-the-double-triangle-architecture]]
* [[138-1-why-single-triangle-models-are-incomplete]]
* [[136-abstract]]
* [[144-7-open-questions]]


h2. Упоминается в

* [[README|Вакансии Anthropic — Анализ по кластерам]]


h2. Связанные документы

* [[139-2-the-double-triangle-architecture|2. The Double-Triangle Architecture]] _37%_
* [[148-appendix-a-glossary|Appendix A: Glossary]] _33%_
* [[138-1-why-single-triangle-models-are-incomplete|1. Why Single-Triangle Models Are Incomplete]] _29%_
* [[141-4-nautilus-portal-as-reference-substrate|4. Nautilus Portal as Reference Substrate]] _29%_
* [[144-7-open-questions|7. Open Questions]] _29%_
* [[136-abstract|Abstract]] _21%_
* [[142-5-pattern-library-as-bridge-between-triangles|5. Pattern Library as Bridge Between Triangles]] _21%_
* [[147-references|References]] _21%_
