{info:title=Источник}
Сгенерировано из: {{docs/obsidian/02-anthropic-vacancies/141-4-nautilus-portal-as-reference-substrate.md}}
Дата: 2026-04-29
{info}

----
title: "4. Nautilus Portal as Reference Substrate"
tags:
  * rag
  * knowledge
  * architecture
  * collaboration
  * anthropic-vacancies
date: 2026-04-29
----

h1. 4. Nautilus Portal as Reference Substrate


{quote}_Абстракт_ (авто){quote}
>
{quote}🎯 _Проблема:_ Required Extensions to NPP for Double-Triangle While NPP v1.1 provides the substrate, three extensions are needed for full Double-Triangle support: Extension 1: Agent Registry.{quote}
{quote}🔧 _Подход:_ We propose NPP as the reference substrate for Double-Triangle implementations.{quote}
{quote}✅ _Результат:_ Required Extensions to NPP for Double-Triangle While NPP v1.1 provides the substrate, three extensions are needed for full Double-Triangle support: Extension 1: Agent Registry.{quote}
{quote}🏷️ _Ключевые слова:_ {{triangle}}, {{double}}, {{nautilus}}, {{reference}}, {{substrate}}, {{architecture}}, {{anthropic}}, {{vacancies}}{quote}
>



{quote}The Double-Triangle Architecture requires a substrate capable of:{quote}

----


h2. Содержание

* [4. Nautilus Portal as Reference Substrate|#4-[nautilus](../docs/05-habr-projects/memory/memnet.md]-portal-as-reference-substrate)
  * [4.1. NPP Components Mapped to Double-Triangle Requirements|#41-npp-components-mapped-to-double-triangle-requirements]
  * [4.2. Required Extensions to NPP for Double-Triangle|#42-required-extensions-to-npp-for-double-triangle]
  * [4.3. Empirical Evidence from Nautilus Reference Implementation|#43-empirical-evidence-from-[nautilus](../docs/05-habr-projects/memory/memnet.md]-reference-implementation)

----






h2. 4. Nautilus Portal as Reference Substrate

The Double-Triangle Architecture requires a substrate capable of:
* Representing diverse knowledge sources uniformly (for assistants 
  to query across Nodes)
* Providing distributed, persistent memory (for context continuity)
* Supporting multi-level consensus (for conflict resolution)
* Enabling federated queries (for Protocol 3 routing)

_Nautilus Portal Protocol (NPP) v1.1_ was designed for knowledge 
federation but provides exactly these properties. We propose NPP 
as the _reference substrate_ for Double-Triangle implementations.

h3. 4.1. NPP Components Mapped to Double-Triangle Requirements

_Adapters_ (NPP) = interface between participants and shared 
space. In Double-Triangle, each assistant can read and write 
through the same adapter mechanism used by any participant, 
providing uniform cross-triangle access.

_[[01-интегральный-анализ-профиля-svend4|PortalEntry]] structure_ (NPP) = unified unit of knowledge. In 
Double-Triangle, this represents tasks, deliverables, context 
updates, and notifications uniformly, enabling a single mechanism 
for all inter-layer communication.

_Consensus model_ (NPP) = conflict resolution between sources. 
In Double-Triangle, consensus operates at three levels (intra-Node 
between assistants, inter-Node, meta-level), all using the same 
mechanism with different scope.

_Q6 coordinate space_ (NPP) = unified addressing for concepts. 
In Double-Triangle, Q6 addresses tasks and deliverables uniformly 
across domains, enabling cross-Node task similarity queries.

_Bridges_ (NPP) = formal links between participants' domains. 
In Double-Triangle, bridges formalize responsibility boundaries 
between Nodes ("authentication is N_1's domain, authorization is 
N_2's, interface is: token format").

_Compatibility levels_ (NPP) = graduated participation. In 
Double-Triangle, this allows Nodes to join teams with minimal 
setup (Level 0–1) and mature over time to full integration 
(Level 3).

_Federation over merging_ (NPP principle) = preserve source 
autonomy. In Double-Triangle, this ensures Nodes remain 
functional without the meta-agent; M augments coordination but 
does not replace Node autonomy.

h3. 4.2. Required Extensions to NPP for Double-Triangle

While NPP v1.1 provides the substrate, three extensions are needed 
for full Double-Triangle support:

_Extension 1: Agent Registry._ NPP v1.1 registers repositories. 
Double-Triangle requires registering _agents_ (AI assistants 
and meta-agents) as first-class participants. Agents have 
identities, capabilities, scope of authority, and audit trails.

_Extension 2: Task Protocol._ NPP v1.1 supports queries but not 
tasks. Double-Triangle requires formal task objects: task 
assignment, acceptance, completion, rejection, reassignment.

_Extension 3: Role Protocol._ NPP v1.1 has no concept of roles. 
Double-Triangle requires roles to be first-class: "this Node is 
responsible for X", "this assistant handles Y". Role assignments 
constrain Protocol 3 routing.

These extensions are additive — they do not break NPP v1.1 
compatibility. A Double-Triangle implementation is an NPP v1.1 
implementation plus these extensions.

h3. 4.3. Empirical Evidence from Nautilus Reference Implementation

The Nautilus reference implementation at {{github.com/svend4/nautilus}} 
provides empirical evidence that the substrate works in practice. 
As of 2026-04:

* 6,782 lines of Python, 13 adapters, 60 tests passing, 0 mypy 
  errors
* 7 knowledge repositories federated (info1, [[01-интегральный-анализ-профиля-svend4|pro2]], meta, data2, 
  data7, infosystems, ai_agents)
* 5 extended adapters enabling federation of external sources 
  (Obsidian vaults, arXiv papers, [[03-component-catalog|GitHub]]-topic repos, JSONL files, 
  self-declaring repos via AutoAdapter)
* Zero external dependencies (Python stdlib only)
* Full REST API, MCP wrapper, OpenAPI specification, Docker 
  deployment, CI/CD

This demonstrates that NPP can be implemented by a single 
developer in 4 months, providing a practical foundation for 
Double-Triangle deployments.

----



----

_Похожие документы:_
* [[158-4-proposed-infrastructure]] (сходство 0.20)
* [[139-2-the-double-triangle-architecture]] (сходство 0.17)
* [[136-abstract]] (сходство 0.17)




----

_Смотрите также:_
* [[158-4-proposed-infrastructure]]
* [[139-2-the-double-triangle-architecture]]
* [[136-abstract]]
* [[68-about]]


h2. Упоминается в

* [[138-1-why-single-triangle-models-are-incomplete|1. Why Single-Triangle Models Are Incomplete]]
* [[86-11-relevance-ranking|11. Relevance Ranking]]
* [[139-2-the-double-triangle-architecture|2. The Double-Triangle Architecture]]
* [[140-3-three-inter-layer-protocols|3. Three Inter-Layer Protocols]]
* [[158-4-proposed-infrastructure|4. Proposed Infrastructure]]
* [[142-5-pattern-library-as-bridge-between-triangles|5. Pattern Library as Bridge Between Triangles]]
* [[144-7-open-questions|7. Open Questions]]
* [[136-abstract|Abstract]]
* [[148-appendix-a-glossary|Appendix A: Glossary]]
* [[104-appendix-c-references|Appendix C: References]]
* [[150-appendix-c-version-history|Appendix C: Version History]]
* [[42-author-contact|Author & Contact]]
* [[README|Вакансии Anthropic — Анализ по кластерам]]
* [[KEYWORD_INDEX|Инвертированный индекс ключевых слов]]
* [[68-about|🇬🇧 About]]
* [[67-о-проекте|🇷🇺 О проекте]]
h2. Упоминается в

* [[README|Вакансии Anthropic — Анализ по кластерам]]


h2. Связанные документы

* [[140-3-three-inter-layer-protocols|3. Three Inter-Layer Protocols]] _25%_
* [[158-4-proposed-infrastructure|4. Proposed Infrastructure]] _25%_
* [[42-author-contact|Author & Contact]] _21%_
* [[68-about|🇬🇧 About]] _21%_
* [[05-0-status-of-this-document|0. Status of This Document]] _17%_
* [[148-appendix-a-glossary|Appendix A: Glossary]] _17%_
* [[150-appendix-c-version-history|Appendix C: Version History]] _17%_
* [[208-professional-colleague-agents-md|PROFESSIONAL COLLEAGUE AGENTS.md]] _17%_
h2. Связанные документы

* [[140-3-three-inter-layer-protocols|3. Three Inter-Layer Protocols]] _29%_
* [[142-5-pattern-library-as-bridge-between-triangles|5. Pattern Library as Bridge Between Triangles]] _29%_
* [[148-appendix-a-glossary|Appendix A: Glossary]] _29%_
* [[42-author-contact|Author & Contact]] _29%_
* [[68-about|🇬🇧 About]] _29%_
* [[104-appendix-c-references|Appendix C: References]] _25%_
* [[158-4-proposed-infrastructure|4. Proposed Infrastructure]] _25%_
* [[25-13-reference-implementation|13. Reference Implementation]] _25%_
