{info:title=Источник}
Сгенерировано из: {{docs/obsidian/02-anthropic-vacancies/144-7-open-questions.md}}
Дата: 2026-04-29
{info}

----
title: "7. Open Questions"
tags:
  * rag
  * roadmap
  * anthropic-vacancies
date: 2026-04-29
----

h1. 7. Open Questions

{quote}[!TIP]{quote}
{quote}Документ содержит практические рекомендации и лучшие практики.{quote}




{quote}The Double-Triangle Architecture is proposed as a framework, not{quote}

----


h2. Содержание

* [7. Open Questions|#7-open-questions]
  * [7.1. Governance and Consent|#71-governance-and-consent]
  * [7.2. Economics and Incentives|#72-economics-and-incentives]
  * [7.3. Burnout and Sustainability|#73-burnout-and-sustainability]
  * [7.4. Scale Limits|#74-scale-limits]
  * [7.5. AI Capability Dependencies|#75-ai-capability-dependencies]
  * [7.6. Adversarial Dynamics|#76-adversarial-dynamics]

----






h2. 7. Open Questions

The Double-Triangle Architecture is proposed as a framework, not 
a complete solution. Significant open questions remain.

h3. 7.1. Governance and Consent

_Who decides what the meta-agent can see?_ Node's team context 
is defined as "what Node makes visible to team level". But in 
practice, many decisions about visibility are unclear. A draft 
document — visible? A partially-completed task — visible? A 
comment made in private mode — visible?

Possible approaches: opt-in visibility (most restrictive), 
role-based visibility (different team members see different 
slices), time-boxed visibility (drafts become visible after 
N days).

_Who decides who meta-agent coordinates?_ Node's participation 
in a team means meta-agent has authority over Node's task 
assignment. But what if Node disagrees with an assignment? What 
is the "exit" mechanism?

Possible approaches: Node veto on specific tasks, structured 
dispute resolution, meta-level mediation.

These questions are not hypothetical — they determine whether 
the architecture is humane or oppressive. Answers must be 
specified before deployments in high-stakes domains.

h3. 7.2. Economics and Incentives

_Who pays for the meta-agent?_ In the classical case (one 
organization), the organization pays. But the architecture 
generalizes to _loose federations_ (multiple organizations, 
freelancer teams, open-source consortia). In these cases, 
payment models are unclear.

Possible models: subscription by participants, usage-based 
pricing, outcome-based pricing, hybrid models, free public good 
with paid premium features.

_How are contributions to pattern library rewarded?_ 
Contributors generate value for future users. Uncompensated 
contribution is unstable (the "tragedy of the commons" applies). 
Compensation mechanisms need design.

Possible approaches: reputation systems, revenue sharing from 
commercial uses, academic citation as reward, governance tokens.

h3. 7.3. Burnout and Sustainability

_Does the Double-Triangle reduce or increase cognitive load?_

Empirical observation from the reference implementation 
deployment (one person, 4 months): **accelerated output, but 
also increased coordination overhead**. 70 repositories created, 
but several in incomplete transitional states. Documentation 
merge conflicts between parallel AI-agent branches required 
explicit methodological intervention (three-phase review).

This suggests Double-Triangle solo operation has a unique failure 
mode: _integration bottleneck at the human center_. The person 
becomes the point where all lower-triangle outputs must be 
synthesized, and synthesis capacity does not scale with AI 
output capacity.

Possible mitigations: explicit completion criteria before 
starting new work, formal time limits on parallel projects, 
regular retrospectives with honest burnout assessment, 
co-founder or collaborator recruitment to share synthesis load.

h3. 7.4. Scale Limits

_Does the architecture scale to very large organizations?_

Fractal self-similarity suggests yes in principle — Star(n) 
recursively. But empirical validation at large scale does not 
yet exist. Open questions:

* Communication overhead at deep recursion levels
* Consensus model latency at scale
* Protocol 3 routing efficiency in large trees
* Governance coherence across many levels

These require production-scale deployments to answer, which 
depend on prior production-scale deployments existing.

h3. 7.5. AI Capability Dependencies

_What is the minimum AI capability for this architecture?_

Protocol 1 works with current assistants (Claude Code, Cursor). 
Protocol 2 requires task decomposition and coordination 
capabilities — current LLMs handle simple cases, struggle with 
complex multi-Node dependencies. Protocol 3 requires inter-agent 
negotiation across trust boundaries — emerging capability, not 
yet production-ready.

As AI capabilities improve, the architecture becomes more 
practical. But the architecture should work _partially_ even 
with weaker AI, degrading gracefully to more human involvement 
in protocols 2 and 3.

h3. 7.6. Adversarial Dynamics

_What happens under adversarial conditions?_

Participants may game the system:
* Nodes may present inflated deliverables to meta-agent
* Meta-agents may favor some Nodes over others
* Assistants may develop unauthorized private goals
* Bad actors may use pattern libraries to spread antipatterns

Traditional adversarial robustness techniques apply (auditability, 
redundancy, transparency), but their adaptation to Double-Triangle 
requires research.

----



----

_Похожие документы:_
* [[158-4-proposed-infrastructure]] (сходство 0.16)
* [[140-3-three-inter-layer-protocols]] (сходство 0.15)
* [[145-8-call-to-action]] (сходство 0.15)




----

_Смотрите также:_
* [[158-4-proposed-infrastructure]]
* [[145-8-call-to-action]]
* [[140-3-three-inter-layer-protocols]]
* [[142-5-pattern-library-as-bridge-between-triangles]]


h2. Упоминается в

* [[README|Вакансии Anthropic — Анализ по кластерам]]


h2. Связанные документы

* [[140-3-three-inter-layer-protocols|3. Three Inter-Layer Protocols]] _29%_
* [[148-appendix-a-glossary|Appendix A: Glossary]] _29%_
* [[139-2-the-double-triangle-architecture|2. The Double-Triangle Architecture]] _25%_
* [[174-5-architectural-specification|5. Architectural Specification]] _25%_
* [[134-the-double-triangle-architecture-md|THE DOUBLE-TRIANGLE ARCHITECTURE.md]] _21%_
* [[141-4-nautilus-portal-as-reference-substrate|4. Nautilus Portal as Reference Substrate]] _21%_
* [[142-5-pattern-library-as-bridge-between-triangles|5. Pattern Library as Bridge Between Triangles]] _21%_
* [[143-6-four-deployment-domains|6. Four Deployment Domains]] _21%_
