{info:title=Источник}
Сгенерировано из: {{docs/obsidian/02-anthropic-vacancies/146-acknowledgments.md}}
Дата: 2026-04-29
{info}

----
title: "Acknowledgments"
tags:
  * rag
  * roadmap
  * anthropic
  * anthropic-vacancies
date: 2026-04-29
----

h1. Acknowledgments

{quote}[!TIP]{quote}
{quote}Документ содержит практические рекомендации и лучшие практики.{quote}




{quote}This work emerged through extensive collaboration with Anthropic's{quote}

----





h2. Acknowledgments

This work emerged through extensive collaboration with Anthropic's 
Claude (primarily Claude Opus 4.7) across multiple sessions in 
2026. Specific contributions include: formalization of Nautilus 
Portal Protocol, three-phase review methodology, pattern library 
architecture analysis, humanities extension design. The author 
integrated, directed, and retained final authority throughout.

This dependency on AI assistance is not a footnote but a core 
observation: the Double-Triangle Architecture is the emerging 
pattern of its own construction. This paper was written by one 
human working with multiple AI assistants, which is exactly the 
lower triangle it describes. The paper's existence is itself 
evidence of the architecture's viability at individual scale.

No external funding supported this work. No external reviewers 
participated in v1.0 draft. Future drafts will seek external 
review.

----



----

_Похожие документы:_
* [[267-acknowledgments]] (сходство 0.17)
* [[251-ai-support-through-configurable-specialist-ensembl]] (сходство 0.17)
* [[209-a-typology-of-ai-agents-on-the-principal-side-and-]] (сходство 0.17)




----

_Смотрите также:_
* [[167-ai-mediated-representation-for-underrepresented-ex]]
* [[209-a-typology-of-ai-agents-on-the-principal-side-and-]]
* [[251-ai-support-through-configurable-specialist-ensembl]]
* [[148-appendix-a-glossary]]


h2. Упоминается в

* [[README|Вакансии Anthropic — Анализ по кластерам]]


h2. Связанные документы

* [[167-ai-mediated-representation-for-underrepresented-ex|AI-Mediated Representation for Underrepresented Experts and Vulnerable Populations]] _48%_
* [[274-the-missing-middle-layer-between-chat-and-code|The Missing Middle Layer Between Chat and Code]] _48%_
* [[182-acknowledgments|Acknowledgments]] _42%_
* [[184-appendix-a-connection-to-companion-papers|Appendix A: Connection to Companion Papers]] _42%_
* [[224-acknowledgments|Acknowledgments]] _42%_
* [[137-table-of-contents|Table of Contents]] _37%_
* [[209-a-typology-of-ai-agents-on-the-principal-side-and-|A Typology of AI Agents on the Principal Side and the Case for Profession-Specific Co-Workers]] _37%_
* [[251-ai-support-through-configurable-specialist-ensembl|AI Support Through Configurable Specialist Ensembles]] _37%_
