{info:title=Источник}
Сгенерировано из: {{docs/obsidian/02-anthropic-vacancies/147-references.md}}
Дата: 2026-04-29
{info}

----
title: "References"
tags:
  * roadmap
  * anthropic
  * collaboration
  * anthropic-vacancies
date: 2026-04-29
----

h1. References


{quote}_Абстракт_ (авто){quote}
>
{quote}🎯 _Проблема:_ References Contents - References(references) - Foundational Sources(foundational-sources) - Multi-Agent Systems(multi-agent-systems) - Protocols and Federation(protocols-and-federa{quote}
{quote}🔧 _Подход:_ "Architectural Styles and the Design of Network-based Software Architectures".{quote}
{quote}🏷️ _Ключевые слова:_ {{anthropic}}, {{references}}, {{protocol}}, {{portal}}, {{vacancies}}, {{svend}}, {{human}}, {{nautilus}}{quote}
>



h2. Contents

* [References|#references]
  * [Foundational Sources|#foundational-sources]
  * [Multi-Agent Systems|#multi-agent-systems]
  * [Protocols and Federation|#protocols-and-federation]
  * [Human-AI Collaboration|#human-ai-collaboration]
  * [Related Architectures|#related-architectures]
  * [Pattern Libraries|#pattern-libraries]
  * [Primary Reference|#primary-reference]



{quote}- Conway, M. E. (1968). "How do committees invent?" _Datamation_.{quote}

----





h2. References

h3. Foundational Sources

* Conway, M. E. (1968). "How do committees invent?" _Datamation_.  
* Brooks, F. P. (1975). _The Mythical Man-Month_.  
* Raymond, E. S. (1999). _The Cathedral and the Bazaar_.  
* Weinberg, G. M. (1971). _The Psychology of Computer Programming_.  

h3. Multi-Agent Systems

* Wooldridge, M. (2009). _An Introduction to MultiAgent Systems_.  
* Russell, S., & Norvig, P. (2020). _Artificial Intelligence: A Modern Approach_, 4th ed.  
* Hong, S., et al. (2023). "MetaGPT: Meta Programming for A Multi-Agent Collaborative Framework". _arXiv:2308.00352_.  

h3. Protocols and Federation

* Fielding, R. T. (2000). "Architectural Styles and the Design of Network-based Software Architectures". UC Irvine dissertation.  
* W3C (2018). _ActivityPub_. W3C Recommendation.  
* Anthropic (2024). _Model Context Protocol Specification_.  

h3. Human-AI Collaboration

* Shneiderman, B. (2022). _Human-Centered AI_.  
* Amershi, S., et al. (2019). "Guidelines for Human-AI Interaction". _CHI '19_.  

h3. Related Architectures

* Chen, L., & Avizienis, A. (1978). "N-Version Programming: A Fault-Tolerance Approach". _FTCS-8_.  
* Berners-Lee, T. (2019). _Solid: Re-decentralizing the Web_.  

h3. Pattern Libraries

* Alexander, C. (1977). _A Pattern Language_.  
* Gamma, E., et al. (1994). _Design Patterns: Elements of Reusable Object-Oriented Software_.  

h3. Primary Reference

* svend4 (2026). _Nautilus Portal Protocol v1.1 Specification_. 
  [[PORTAL-PROTOCOL|github.com/svend4/nautilus/blob/main/PORTAL-PROTOCOL.md]]  
* svend4 (2026). _Review Methodology: Three-Phase Consolidation_. 
  [[REVIEW_METHODOLOGY|github.com/svend4/nautilus/blob/main/REVIEW_METHODOLOGY.md]]  

----



----

_Похожие документы:_
* [[268-references]] (сходство 0.12)
* [[73-portal-protocol-md-v1-1]] (сходство 0.12)
* [[306-with-anthropic-s-cowork-platform]] (сходство 0.11)




----

_Смотрите также:_
* [[73-portal-protocol-md-v1-1]]
* [[320-references]]
* [[268-references]]
* [[338-ссылки]]

