{info:title=Источник}
Сгенерировано из: {{docs/obsidian/02-anthropic-vacancies/148-appendix-a-glossary.md}}
Дата: 2026-04-29
{info}

----
title: "Appendix A: Glossary"
tags:
  * roadmap
  * anthropic-vacancies
date: 2026-04-29
----

h1. Appendix A: Glossary


{quote}_Абстракт_ (авто){quote}
>
{quote}🎯 _Проблема:_ Appendix A: Glossary !TIP Документ содержит практические рекомендации и лучшие практики.{quote}
{quote}🔧 _Подход:_ - Three-phase review: Methodology for parallel AI-agent review with subsequent consolidation.{quote}
{quote}🏷️ _Ключевые слова:_ {{triangle}}, {{architecture}}, {{pattern}}, {{anthropic}}, {{vacancies}}, {{double}}, {{library}}, {{bridge}}{quote}
>


{quote}[!TIP]{quote}
{quote}Документ содержит практические рекомендации и лучшие практики.{quote}




{quote}- _Double-Triangle Architecture_: The topology where each{quote}

----





h2. Appendix A: Glossary

* _Double-Triangle Architecture_: The topology where each 
  human knowledge worker simultaneously occupies conductor role 
  in a lower triangle of AI assistants and performer role in an 
  upper triangle coordinated by meta-agents.

* _Lower triangle_: Individual human + personal AI assistants.

* _Upper triangle_: Meta-agent + multiple human participants.

* _Node_: A human participant in the architecture.

* _Meta-agent_: An AI (or AI-augmented human) coordinating 
  multiple Nodes.

* _Assistant_: An AI working under a specific Node's 
  direction in their lower triangle.

* _Star of David topology_: The six-pointed figure formed by 
  superimposing the upper and lower triangles around the shared 
  Node vertex.

* _Protocol 1_: Downward communication within lower triangle 
  (Node to Assistants).

* _Protocol 2_: Downward communication within upper triangle 
  (Meta-agent to Nodes).

* _Protocol 3_: Cross-triangle negotiation (Assistant-to-Meta 
  via Node).

* _Pattern library_: Two-tier knowledge structure with public 
  abstract patterns and private concrete instances.

* _Inheritance bridge_: Link from private instance to public 
  pattern.

* _Contribution bridge_: Anonymized link from private instance 
  back to public pattern library.

* _Star(n)_: n-th level of fractal hierarchy.

* _NPP_: Nautilus Portal Protocol.

* _Three-phase review_: Methodology for parallel AI-agent 
  review with subsequent consolidation.

----



----

_Похожие документы:_
* [[139-2-the-double-triangle-architecture]] (сходство 0.19)
* [[136-abstract]] (сходство 0.17)
* [[142-5-pattern-library-as-bridge-between-triangles]] (сходство 0.17)




----

_Смотрите также:_
* [[146-acknowledgments]]
* [[139-2-the-double-triangle-architecture]]
* [[142-5-pattern-library-as-bridge-between-triangles]]
* [[136-abstract]]


h2. Упоминается в

* [[139-2-the-double-triangle-architecture|2. The Double-Triangle Architecture]]
* [[140-3-three-inter-layer-protocols|3. Three Inter-Layer Protocols]]
* [[141-4-nautilus-portal-as-reference-substrate|4. Nautilus Portal as Reference Substrate]]
* [[142-5-pattern-library-as-bridge-between-triangles|5. Pattern Library as Bridge Between Triangles]]
* [[143-6-four-deployment-domains|6. Four Deployment Domains]]
* [[144-7-open-questions|7. Open Questions]]
* [[145-8-call-to-action|8. Call to Action]]
* [[262-9-integration-with-okwf-infrastructure|9. Integration with OKWF Infrastructure]]
* [[136-abstract|Abstract]]
* [[146-acknowledgments|Acknowledgments]]
* [[147-references|References]]
* [[README|Вакансии Anthropic — Анализ по кластерам]]
* [[133-обратная-связь|Обратная связь]]
h2. Упоминается в

* [[README|Вакансии Anthropic — Анализ по кластерам]]


h2. Связанные документы

* [[140-3-three-inter-layer-protocols|3. Three Inter-Layer Protocols]] _29%_
* [[142-5-pattern-library-as-bridge-between-triangles|5. Pattern Library as Bridge Between Triangles]] _29%_
* [[133-обратная-связь|Обратная связь]] _25%_
* [[139-2-the-double-triangle-architecture|2. The Double-Triangle Architecture]] _25%_
* [[143-6-four-deployment-domains|6. Four Deployment Domains]] _21%_
* [[144-7-open-questions|7. Open Questions]] _21%_
* [[141-4-nautilus-portal-as-reference-substrate|4. Nautilus Portal as Reference Substrate]] _17%_
* [[145-8-call-to-action|8. Call to Action]] _17%_
h2. Связанные документы

* [[142-5-pattern-library-as-bridge-between-triangles|5. Pattern Library as Bridge Between Triangles]] _37%_
* [[143-6-four-deployment-domains|6. Four Deployment Domains]] _37%_
* [[139-2-the-double-triangle-architecture|2. The Double-Triangle Architecture]] _33%_
* [[140-3-three-inter-layer-protocols|3. Three Inter-Layer Protocols]] _33%_
* [[141-4-nautilus-portal-as-reference-substrate|4. Nautilus Portal as Reference Substrate]] _29%_
* [[144-7-open-questions|7. Open Questions]] _29%_
* [[262-9-integration-with-okwf-infrastructure|9. Integration with OKWF Infrastructure]] _25%_
* [[134-the-double-triangle-architecture-md|THE DOUBLE-TRIANGLE ARCHITECTURE.md]] _21%_
