{info:title=Источник}
Сгенерировано из: {{docs/obsidian/02-anthropic-vacancies/149-appendix-b-summary-of-contributions.md}}
Дата: 2026-04-29
{info}

----
title: "Appendix B: Summary of Contributions"
tags:
  * architecture
  * anthropic-vacancies
date: 2026-04-29
----

h1. Appendix B: Summary of Contributions


{quote}1. _Topological formalization_ of Double-Triangle Architecture{quote}

----





h2. Appendix B: Summary of Contributions

1. _Topological formalization_ of Double-Triangle Architecture 
   with Star of David metaphor
2. _Six architectural invariants_ constraining valid 
   implementations
3. _Three inter-layer protocols_ specification (only Protocols 
   1 and 2 are currently partially implemented; Protocol 3 is 
   novel)
4. _Fractal scaling property_ via Star(n) recursive construction
5. _Nautilus Portal Protocol v1.1 reference substrate_ with 
   documented gaps requiring three specific extensions
6. _Pattern library architecture_ as coherence mechanism across 
   triangles, including three bridge types
7. _Four domain deployments_ analyzed with specific 
   applicability notes
8. _Six open research questions_ with framing and suggested 
   approaches
9. _Empirical case study_ (reference implementation at 4-month 
   maturity)
10. _Multi-stakeholder call to action_ addressing researchers, 
    practitioners, founders, policymakers, and the author 
    personally

----

h1. Author & Contact

h2. Author & Contact
Кто поддерживает, как связаться.



----

_Похожие документы:_
* [[137-table-of-contents]] (сходство 0.24)
* [[136-abstract]] (сходство 0.15)
* [[355-существующие-документы-dhlab-твой-context]] (сходство 0.12)




----

_Смотрите также:_
* [[137-table-of-contents]]
* [[136-abstract]]
* [[355-существующие-документы-dhlab-твой-context]]
* [[211-table-of-contents]]


h2. Упоминается в

* [[322-appendix-b-comparison-matrix|Appendix B: Comparison Matrix]]
* [[137-table-of-contents|Table of Contents]]
* [[169-table-of-contents|Table of Contents]]
* [[README|Вакансии Anthropic — Анализ по кластерам]]
* [[326-содержание|Содержание]]
* [[351-что-ты-можешь-делать|Что ты МОЖЕШЬ делать]]
* [[352-что-ты-не-можешь-делать-без-max-approval|Что ты НЕ МОЖЕШЬ делать без Max approval]]
h2. Упоминается в

* [[README|Вакансии Anthropic — Анализ по кластерам]]


h2. Связанные документы

* [[169-table-of-contents|Table of Contents]] _25%_
* [[326-содержание|Содержание]] _25%_
* [[136-abstract|Abstract]] _21%_
* [[137-table-of-contents|Table of Contents]] _17%_
* [[138-1-why-single-triangle-models-are-incomplete|1. Why Single-Triangle Models Are Incomplete]] _17%_
* [[154-table-of-contents|Table of Contents]] _17%_
* [[190-содержание|Содержание]] _17%_
* [[253-table-of-contents|Table of Contents]] _17%_
h2. Связанные документы

* [[137-table-of-contents|Table of Contents]] _33%_
* [[326-содержание|Содержание]] _29%_
* [[308-table-of-contents|Table of Contents]] _25%_
* [[154-table-of-contents|Table of Contents]] _21%_
* [[169-table-of-contents|Table of Contents]] _21%_
* [[190-содержание|Содержание]] _21%_
* [[211-table-of-contents|Table of Contents]] _21%_
* [[253-table-of-contents|Table of Contents]] _21%_
