{info:title=Источник}
Сгенерировано из: {{docs/obsidian/02-anthropic-vacancies/157-3-why-existing-solutions-fail.md}}
Дата: 2026-04-29
{info}

----
title: "3. Why Existing Solutions Fail"
tags:
  * rag
  * anthropic
  * anthropic-vacancies
date: 2026-04-29
----

h1. 3. Why Existing Solutions Fail


{quote}Seven existing infrastructure categories partially address the{quote}

----


h2. Содержание

* [3. Why Existing Solutions Fail|#3-why-existing-solutions-fail]
  * [3.1. Classical Employment (Full-Time)|#31-classical-employment-full-time]
  * [3.2. Freelance Platforms (Upwork, Fiverr, Toptal)|#32-freelance-platforms-upwork-fiverr-toptal]
  * [3.3. Executive Contracting (Deel, Remote, Oyster, Velocity Global)|#33-executive-contracting-deel-remote-oyster-velocity-global]
  * [3.4. AI Talent Platforms (Mercor, Braintrust, A.Team)|#34-ai-talent-platforms-mercor-braintrust-ateam]
  * [3.5. Open-Source Foundations (Apache, Linux, Python, Mozilla)|#35-open-source-foundations-apache-linux-python-mozilla]
  * [3.6. Government-Funded Training Programs|#36-government-funded-training-programs]
  * [3.7. Corporate Social Responsibility Programs|#37-corporate-social-responsibility-programs]
  * [3.8. Summary|#38-summary]

----






h2. 3. Why Existing Solutions Fail

Seven existing infrastructure categories partially address the 
problem but collectively fail to solve it.

h3. 3.1. Classical Employment (Full-Time)

_Approach_: Traditional W-2/permanent employment with single 
employer.

_Strengths_: Stability, benefits, identity, clear accountability.

_Failures for target populations_:
* Requires relocation or strict remote eligibility
* Requires full-time capacity (40+ hours/week)
* Requires legal work authorization in employer jurisdiction
* Hiring pipelines filter out non-traditional candidates via 
  credentialism and interview-format bias

_Verdict_: Fundamentally mismatched to target populations.

h3. 3.2. Freelance Platforms (Upwork, Fiverr, Toptal)

_Approach_: Marketplace matching contractors to short-term 
projects.

_Strengths_: Geographic flexibility, part-time possible, 
lower barriers to entry.

_Failures for target populations_:
* Race-to-the-bottom pricing for knowledge workers
* No persistent identity across clients
* Heavy platform fees (20-30%)
* Transactional relationships preclude deep engagement
* Quality variable, reputation building difficult

_Verdict_: Treats knowledge work as commodity; incompatible 
with dignity preservation.

h3. 3.3. Executive Contracting (Deel, Remote, Oyster, Velocity Global)

_Approach_: Employer of Record (EoR) services enabling 
companies to hire internationally without local entity.

_Strengths_: Solves legal compliance for cross-border hiring.

_Failures for target populations_:
* High fees (10-15% markup) make small engagements impractical
* Bureaucratic overhead unsuitable for part-time or variable 
  capacity
* No community infrastructure
* Companies still need to source candidates independently

_Verdict_: Solves one aspect (compliance) in isolation; 
expensive.

h3. 3.4. AI Talent Platforms (Mercor, Braintrust, A.Team)

_Approach_: AI-enhanced matching of specialized contractors 
to enterprise projects.

_Strengths_: Modern infrastructure, AI-assisted matching, 
better UX.

_Failures for target populations_:
* Target enterprise clients with budgets for premium consultants
* Selection bias toward younger, Silicon Valley-adjacent talent
* No dignity-preserving structure for elders or disabled
* Revenue model misaligned with non-commercial work

_Verdict_: Better than legacy alternatives but fundamentally 
same commercial paradigm.

h3. 3.5. Open-Source Foundations (Apache, Linux, Python, Mozilla)

_Approach_: Non-profit foundations supporting open-source 
software development.

_Strengths_: Mission-driven, community-based, enduring.

_Failures for target populations_:
* Volunteer-centric model excludes those needing income
* Tech-centric, excludes non-CS domains
* Prestige-driven, benefit leaders more than rank-and-file
* No mechanism for serving target populations specifically

_Verdict_: Model template is valuable; execution doesn't 
match target.

h3. 3.6. Government-Funded Training Programs

_Approach_: Publicly funded vocational training and placement.

_Strengths_: Broad access, subsidized, legal protections.

_Failures for target populations_:
* Designed for young job-seekers, not elders or 
  career-switchers
* Training focuses on entry-level roles, not senior expertise
* Placement into traditional employment (with its own 
  mismatches)
* Bureaucratic, slow-moving

_Verdict_: Wrong target; different problem.

h3. 3.7. Corporate Social Responsibility Programs

_Approach_: Tech companies run inclusion programs, disability 
hiring, senior workforce initiatives.

_Strengths_: Ethical intent, some funding available, aligned 
with ESG reporting.

_Failures for target populations_:
* Often limited to single company, small cohorts
* Charity framing undignified for qualified experts
* Dependent on individual company priorities (volatile)
* No cross-company coordination or infrastructure

_Verdict_: Good intent, fragmented execution, no 
infrastructure effect.

h3. 3.8. Summary

Each existing category addresses one fragment of what OKWF 
proposes. None combine:

* Geographic flexibility + dignity preservation + community 
  continuity + compliance solutions + AI-assisted coordination 
  + foundation funding model

The gap is not individual pieces but **integration of pieces 
into coherent infrastructure**. OKWF's proposed contribution 
is this integration.

----



----

_Похожие документы:_
* [[156-2-target-populations]] (сходство 0.16)
* [[153-executive-summary]] (сходство 0.15)
* [[158-4-proposed-infrastructure]] (сходство 0.13)




----

_Смотрите также:_
* [[156-2-target-populations]]
* [[153-executive-summary]]
* [[158-4-proposed-infrastructure]]
* [[155-1-problem-statement]]


h2. Упоминается в

* [[README|Вакансии Anthropic — Анализ по кластерам]]


h2. Связанные документы

* [[153-executive-summary|Executive Summary]] _29%_
* [[154-table-of-contents|Table of Contents]] _29%_
* [[155-1-problem-statement|1. Problem Statement]] _25%_
* [[156-2-target-populations|2. Target Populations]] _17%_
