{info:title=Источник}
Сгенерировано из: {{docs/obsidian/02-anthropic-vacancies/160-6-governance-and-ethics.md}}
Дата: 2026-04-29
{info}

----
title: "6. Governance and Ethics"
tags:
  * roadmap
  * anthropic
  * anthropic-vacancies
date: 2026-04-29
----

h1. 6. Governance and Ethics


h2. Содержание

* [Contents|#contents]
* [6. Governance and Ethics|#6-governance-and-ethics]
  * [6.1. Governance Structure|#61-governance-structure]
  * [6.2. Key Ethical Commitments|#62-key-ethical-commitments]
  * [6.3. Conflict of Interest Management|#63-conflict-of-interest-management]
  * [6.4. Regulatory Compliance|#64-regulatory-compliance]
  * [6.5. Ethical Red Lines|#65-ethical-red-lines]
* [Упоминается в|#упоминается-в]
* [Связанные документы|#связанные-документы]

----





h2. Contents

* [6. Governance and Ethics|#6-governance-and-ethics]
  * [6.1. Governance Structure|#61-governance-structure]
  * [6.2. Key Ethical Commitments|#62-key-ethical-commitments]
  * [6.3. Conflict of Interest Management|#63-conflict-of-interest-management]
  * [6.4. Regulatory Compliance|#64-regulatory-compliance]
  * [6.5. Ethical Red Lines|#65-ethical-red-lines]



{quote}_Board of Directors_ (7 members):{quote}

----





h2. 6. Governance and Ethics

h3. 6.1. Governance Structure

_Board of Directors_ (7 members):
* 2 corporate partners (rotating)
* 2 foundation representatives (Mozilla-type)
* 2 contributor representatives (elected by contributors)
* 1 independent (academic or public policy)

_Executive team_ (3-5 people):
* Executive Director
* Technical Director
* Community Director
* Legal Director

_Guild councils_: Each guild has elected 3-person council 
governing internal affairs.

_Contributor assembly_: Annual gathering of all contributors 
with binding decisional authority on specified matters 
(stipend minimums, dignity standards, guild boundaries).

h3. 6.2. Key Ethical Commitments

_Commitment 1_: No contributor will be charged fees or 
subjected to rent-seeking. Foundation takes 0% from contributor 
earnings.

_Commitment 2_: Contributor intellectual property remains 
with contributor by default. Specific projects may transfer 
rights with transparent, negotiated terms.

_Commitment 3_: Anonymization of contributed patterns is 
voluntary; contributor always retains attribution right.

_Commitment 4_: No algorithmic management. AI assists 
coordination but final decisions about contributors remain 
with humans.

_Commitment 5_: Private data (contributors' personal 
circumstances, health information) remains with contributor. 
Foundation handles compliance through delegation, not data 
accumulation.

_Commitment 6_: Transparent operations. Financials, 
decisions, pattern library, infrastructure all publicly 
auditable.

_Commitment 7_: Graceful exit. Contributors can leave at 
any time. Their contributions, reputation, and public patterns 
remain with foundation. Private data exported on request.

h3. 6.3. Conflict of Interest Management

Corporate partners fund foundation but cannot:
* Direct specific contributor assignment
* Access contributor private data
* Modify pattern library priorities
* Override governance decisions

Contributors' sponsors contribute capital but receive only:
* Anonymized patterns (public)
* Transparency reports (aggregated)
* Brand association (opt-in)
* First-look invitations to collaborative projects (not guarantees)

h3. 6.4. Regulatory Compliance

_GDPR_ (EU): Foundation operates as data controller for 
minimal required personal data. Pattern library governed by 
GDPR Article 89 (scientific/statistical research) where 
appropriate. Contributor data sovereignty preserved.

_Employment law_: Foundation-contributor relationship 
structured as contractor/grantee, not employment. Compliance 
with each jurisdiction's requirements (consulting tax law 
firm during setup).

_AI Act_ (EU): Foundation's use of AI in matching, 
coordination, quality assurance subject to AI Act transparency 
requirements. Proactive compliance and documentation.

_Disability rights_ (all jurisdictions): Infrastructure 
explicitly designed for accessibility. Contributor accommodations 
built into platform rather than retrofitted.

h3. 6.5. Ethical Red Lines

Foundation will not:
* Support projects intended for military use
* Accept funding contingent on compromising commitment 1-7
* Use contributor data for AI training without explicit consent
* Share contributor private data except as legally required
* Allow algorithmic decisions to replace human judgment on 
  dignified issues

----



----

_Похожие документы:_
* [[158-4-proposed-infrastructure]] (сходство 0.14)
* [[164-10-appendices]] (сходство 0.11)
* [[163-9-call-for-partnership]] (сходство 0.11)




----

_Смотрите также:_
* [[158-4-proposed-infrastructure]]
* [[164-10-appendices]]
* [[163-9-call-for-partnership]]
* [[161-7-phased-rollout-plan]]


h2. Упоминается в

* [[README|Вакансии Anthropic — Анализ по кластерам]]


h2. Связанные документы

* [[163-9-call-for-partnership|9. Call for Partnership]] _21%_
* [[159-5-economic-model|5. Economic Model]] _17%_
* [[161-7-phased-rollout-plan|7. Phased Rollout Plan]] _17%_
* [[164-10-appendices|10. Appendices]] _17%_
* [[176-7-governance-and-oversight|7. Governance and Oversight]] _17%_
* [[265-12-call-for-collaboration|12. Call for Collaboration]] _17%_
