{info:title=Источник}
Сгенерировано из: {{docs/obsidian/02-anthropic-vacancies/161-7-phased-rollout-plan.md}}
Дата: 2026-04-29
{info}

----
title: "7. Phased Rollout Plan"
tags:
  * roadmap
  * anthropic-vacancies
date: 2026-04-29
----

h1. 7. Phased Rollout Plan


{quote}_Абстракт_ (авто){quote}
>
{quote}🎯 _Проблема:_ Phased Rollout Plan - Establish legal entity (non-profit foundation in Germany or --- Содержание - 7.{quote}
{quote}🔧 _Подход:_ Secondary institutions emerge following OKWF methodology with domain-specific focus (OKWF Medical, OKWF Education, OKWF Legal, etc.).{quote}
{quote}🏷️ _Ключевые слова:_ {{phase}}, {{funding}}, {{months}}, {{phased}}, {{rollout}}, {{foundation}}, {{infrastructure}}, {{contributors}}{quote}
>



{quote}- Establish legal entity (non-profit foundation in Germany or{quote}

----


h2. Содержание

* [7. Phased Rollout Plan|#7-phased-rollout-plan]
  * [7.1. Phase 0: Foundation and Funding (Months 1-6)|#71-phase-0-foundation-and-funding-months-1-6]
  * [7.2. Phase 1: Infrastructure and First Cohort (Months 6-18)|#72-phase-1-infrastructure-and-first-cohort-months-6-18]
  * [7.3. Phase 2: Scale and Diversification (Months 18-36)|#73-phase-2-scale-and-diversification-months-18-36]
  * [7.4. Phase 3: Consolidation and Self-Sustaining Operations|#74-phase-3-consolidation-and-self-sustaining-operations]
  * [7.5. Long-Term Vision (Years 5-10)|#75-long-term-vision-years-5-10]

----






h2. 7. Phased Rollout Plan

h3. 7.1. Phase 0: Foundation and Funding (Months 1-6)

_Key activities_:
* Establish legal entity (non-profit foundation in Germany or 
  similar jurisdiction)
* Secure anchor corporate funding commitment
* Assemble core team (Executive Director, Technical Director, 
  Community Director)
* Finalize pilot design with anchor partner
* Refine technical infrastructure specifications

_Success criteria_:
* €2-3M committed funding
* Core team hired
* Legal entity established
* Pilot design agreed with partner

_Risk mitigations_:
* If anchor commitment fails: pivot to foundation-only funding 
  with delayed, smaller pilot
* If core team assembly slow: partner with established entity 
  (e.g., Mozilla Foundation) as fiscal sponsor temporarily

h3. 7.2. Phase 1: Infrastructure and First Cohort (Months 6-18)

_Key activities_:
* Build production-ready technical infrastructure 
  (Nautilus-based)
* Recruit first 50 contributors, primarily in legal writing 
  guild
* Execute 5-10 pilot projects (mix of internal, partner-funded, 
  open source)
* Establish pattern library initial contents
* Document outcomes and learnings

_Success criteria_:
* 50 active contributors engaged
* 5-10 completed pilot projects with measurable quality 
  outcomes
* Working pattern library with 100+ public patterns
* Contributor satisfaction survey: >75% positive
* Public output: 1-2 published papers/articles on learnings

_Risk mitigations_:
* If contributor recruitment slow: increase outreach investment; 
  partner with existing networks (LinkedIn groups, disability 
  advocacy organizations)
* If project outcomes disappointing: iterate on selection 
  criteria and support structures

h3. 7.3. Phase 2: Scale and Diversification (Months 18-36)

_Key activities_:
* Expand to 500+ contributors across 3-5 guilds
* Launch commercial project revenue stream
* Establish second guild (potentially science communication or 
  medical documentation)
* Pilot in second geographic region beyond Germany
* Develop API and integrations for third-party applications

_Success criteria_:
* 500+ active contributors
* €500K+ annual commercial revenue
* 3-5 fully functional guilds
* Operational in 2+ countries
* Break-even on commercial projects

_Risk mitigations_:
* If commercial revenue slow: pivot to more grant funding 
  reliance temporarily
* If guild expansion difficult: prioritize depth in first 
  guild over breadth

h3. 7.4. Phase 3: Consolidation and Self-Sustaining Operations 
(Years 3-5)

_Key activities_:
* Expand to 5000+ contributors
* Develop endowment and reduce funding dependency
* Formalize international partnerships
* Influence policy on AI-assisted distributed work
* Publish methodological outcomes for external replication

_Success criteria_:
* 5000+ active contributors globally
* Self-sustaining core operations (non-grant funding covers 
  baseline)
* 10+ active research partnerships
* Policy impact measurable
* Replicable methodology documented

h3. 7.5. Long-Term Vision (Years 5-10)

OKWF evolves into trusted infrastructure for distributed 
expert work globally. Multiple foundations and corporate 
partners sustain operations. Contributors span every continent. 
Specialization extends across most knowledge domains.

Secondary institutions emerge following OKWF methodology 
with domain-specific focus (OKWF Medical, OKWF Education, 
OKWF Legal, etc.). Collaborative federation of such institutions 
through common protocols (Nautilus-based) creates network 
effect in knowledge work infrastructure.

Long-term impact: transformation of knowledge work from 
classical employment-centered model to distributed, 
dignified, AI-coordinated participation accessible to all 
qualified individuals regardless of traditional constraints.

----



----

_Похожие документы:_
* [[159-5-economic-model]] (сходство 0.18)
* [[178-9-phased-rollout-strategy]] (сходство 0.17)
* [[163-9-call-for-partnership]] (сходство 0.16)




----

_Смотрите также:_
* [[159-5-economic-model]]
* [[178-9-phased-rollout-strategy]]
* [[163-9-call-for-partnership]]
* [[162-8-risk-analysis]]


h2. Упоминается в

* [[180-11-call-for-collaboration|11. Call for Collaboration]]
* [[159-5-economic-model|5. Economic Model]]
* [[160-6-governance-and-ethics|6. Governance and Ethics]]
* [[162-8-risk-analysis|8. Risk Analysis]]
* [[163-9-call-for-partnership|9. Call for Partnership]]
* [[178-9-phased-rollout-strategy|9. Phased Rollout Strategy]]
* [[README|Вакансии Anthropic — Анализ по кластерам]]
h2. Упоминается в

* [[README|Вакансии Anthropic — Анализ по кластерам]]


h2. Связанные документы

* [[159-5-economic-model|5. Economic Model]] _29%_
* [[178-9-phased-rollout-strategy|9. Phased Rollout Strategy]] _29%_
* [[163-9-call-for-partnership|9. Call for Partnership]] _21%_
h2. Связанные документы

* [[178-9-phased-rollout-strategy|9. Phased Rollout Strategy]] _29%_
* [[159-5-economic-model|5. Economic Model]] _25%_
* [[163-9-call-for-partnership|9. Call for Partnership]] _21%_
* [[219-8-pilot-proposal-sgb-advocate-colleague|8. Pilot Proposal: SGB Advocate Colleague]] _21%_
* [[153-executive-summary|Executive Summary]] _17%_
* [[160-6-governance-and-ethics|6. Governance and Ethics]] _17%_
* [[180-11-call-for-collaboration|11. Call for Collaboration]] _17%_
* [[257-4-the-sub-agent-registry|4. The Sub-Agent Registry]] _17%_
