{info:title=Источник}
Сгенерировано из: {{docs/obsidian/02-anthropic-vacancies/163-9-call-for-partnership.md}}
Дата: 2026-04-29
{info}

----
title: "9. Call for Partnership"
tags:
  * rag
  * anthropic
  * anthropic-vacancies
date: 2026-04-29
----

h1. 9. Call for Partnership


h2. Содержание

* [Contents|#contents]
* [9. Call for Partnership|#9-call-for-partnership]
  * [9.1. For AI Companies (Anthropic, Mistral, OpenAI, Google, Microsoft)|#91-for-ai-companies-anthropic-mistral-openai-google-microsoft]
  * [9.2. For Foundations (Mozilla, Ford, Wikimedia, Hewlett)|#92-for-foundations-mozilla-ford-wikimedia-hewlett]
  * [9.3. For Academic and Research Partners (Universities, Think Tanks)|#93-for-academic-and-research-partners-universities-think-tanks]
  * [9.4. For Policy Organizations (EU Commission, National Governments, OECD)|#94-for-policy-organizations-eu-commission-national-governments-oecd]
  * [9.5. For Potential Contributors|#95-for-potential-contributors]
* [Упоминается в|#упоминается-в]
* [Связанные документы|#связанные-документы]

----



h2. Contents

* [9. Call for Partnership|#9-call-for-partnership]
  * [9.1. For AI Companies (Anthropic, Mistral, OpenAI, Google, Microsoft)|#91-for-ai-companies-anthropic-mistral-openai-google-microsoft]
  * [9.2. For Foundations (Mozilla, Ford, Wikimedia, Hewlett)|#92-for-foundations-mozilla-ford-wikimedia-hewlett]
  * [9.3. For Academic and Research Partners (Universities, Think Tanks)|#93-for-academic-and-research-partners-universities-think-tanks]
  * [9.4. For Policy Organizations (EU Commission, National Governments, OECD)|#94-for-policy-organizations-eu-commission-national-governments-oecd]
  * [9.5. For Potential Contributors|#95-for-potential-contributors]



{quote}OKWF is not a solo initiative. Successful launch requires{quote}

----





h2. 9. Call for Partnership

OKWF is not a solo initiative. Successful launch requires 
coordinated action across multiple stakeholder types. This 
section explicitly invites partnership.

h3. 9.1. For AI Companies (Anthropic, Mistral, OpenAI, Google, Microsoft)

_What we ask_:
* Core partnership funding commitment (€1-3M over 3 years)
* Integration of OKWF contributors into specific projects
* Technical infrastructure support (compute, AI access for 
  contributors)
* Mentorship from senior staff to contributor community
* Governance board participation

_What you receive_:
* Direct access to qualified talent pool outside your hiring 
  pipeline
* Demonstrable commitment to beneficial AI values
* Research insights on distributed AI-assisted work
* Public recognition as foundational partner
* First-look on collaborative projects

_Natural fit partners_:
* _Anthropic Public Benefit team_: explicit mission alignment
* _Google.org_: established corporate philanthropy
* _Mozilla_: commitment to open source and inclusive tech

h3. 9.2. For Foundations (Mozilla, Ford, Wikimedia, Hewlett)

_What we ask_:
* Multi-year grant commitment (€500K-2M)
* Expertise in mission-driven infrastructure
* Introductions to aligned stakeholders
* Advocacy for OKWF model in broader foundation ecosystem

_What you receive_:
* Scalable impact on intellectual participation
* Alignment with AI safety and inclusion missions
* Data and learnings from novel infrastructure experiment
* Complement existing programs rather than duplicate

h3. 9.3. For Academic and Research Partners (Universities, Think Tanks)

_What we ask_:
* Research collaboration on methodology and outcomes
* Student and researcher contributor recruitment
* Policy and governance expertise
* Academic credibility through endorsement

_What you receive_:
* Access to novel research environment
* Publication opportunities
* Grant collaboration possibilities
* Impact beyond traditional academic boundaries

h3. 9.4. For Policy Organizations (EU Commission, National Governments, OECD)

_What we ask_:
* Regulatory guidance and dialogue
* Recognition of experimental status
* Potential grant funding (EU Horizon, national programs)
* Advocacy in policy development affecting distributed work

_What you receive_:
* Concrete evidence for policy development
* Early warning on emerging regulatory needs
* Test case for AI-assisted work frameworks
* Constituency of beneficiaries

h3. 9.5. For Potential Contributors

_What we ask_:
* Willingness to participate in early cohorts
* Feedback on infrastructure and processes
* Mentorship to newer contributors
* Community building

_What you receive_:
* Dignified, meaningful engagement
* Income proportional to contribution
* Persistent professional identity
* Community and mentorship
* Opportunity to shape infrastructure design

----



----

_Похожие документы:_
* [[164-10-appendices]] (сходство 0.17)
* [[161-7-phased-rollout-plan]] (сходство 0.16)
* [[159-5-economic-model]] (сходство 0.15)




----

_Смотрите также:_
* [[161-7-phased-rollout-plan]]
* [[164-10-appendices]]
* [[159-5-economic-model]]
* [[153-executive-summary]]


h2. Упоминается в

* [[README|Вакансии Anthropic — Анализ по кластерам]]


h2. Связанные документы

* [[160-6-governance-and-ethics|6. Governance and Ethics]] _21%_
* [[161-7-phased-rollout-plan|7. Phased Rollout Plan]] _21%_
* [[164-10-appendices|10. Appendices]] _21%_
* [[257-4-the-sub-agent-registry|4. The Sub-Agent Registry]] _21%_
* [[145-8-call-to-action|8. Call to Action]] _17%_
* [[159-5-economic-model|5. Economic Model]] _17%_
