{info:title=Источник}
Сгенерировано из: {{docs/obsidian/02-anthropic-vacancies/173-4-ten-domains-of-application.md}}
Дата: 2026-04-29
{info}

----
title: "4. Ten Domains of Application"
tags:
  * rag
  * ingestion
  * roadmap
  * anthropic-vacancies
date: 2026-04-29
----

h1. 4. Ten Domains of Application

{quote}[!TIP]{quote}
{quote}Документ содержит практические рекомендации и лучшие практики.{quote}




{quote}The Representative Agent pattern applies broadly. We identify{quote}

----


h2. Содержание

* [4. Ten Domains of Application|#4-ten-domains-of-application]
  * [4.1. Domain 1 — Knowledge Workers in Distributed Markets|#41-domain-1-knowledge-workers-in-distributed-markets]
  * [4.2. Domain 2 — Retired Professionals and Volunteers|#42-domain-2-retired-professionals-and-volunteers]
  * [4.3. Domain 3 — Social Workers Managing Client Caseloads|#43-domain-3-social-workers-managing-client-caseloads]
  * [4.4. Domain 4 — Vulnerable Citizens Navigating Bureaucracy|#44-domain-4-vulnerable-citizens-navigating-bureaucracy]
  * [4.5. Domain 5 — Caregivers Managing Dependents|#45-domain-5-caregivers-managing-dependents]
  * [4.6. Domain 6 — Small Business Owners and Solo Entrepreneurs|#46-domain-6-small-business-owners-and-solo-entrepreneurs]
  * [4.7. Domain 7 — Patients Managing Chronic Conditions|#47-domain-7-patients-managing-chronic-conditions]
  * [4.8. Domain 8 — Students Navigating Educational Systems|#48-domain-8-students-navigating-educational-systems]
  * [4.9. Domain 9 — Communities Negotiating with Institutions|#49-domain-9-communities-negotiating-with-institutions]
  * [4.10. Domain 10 — Future Generations and Non-Human Stakeholders|#410-domain-10-future-generations-and-non-human-stakeholders]
  * [4.11. Cross-Cutting Observations|#411-cross-cutting-observations]

----






h2. 4. Ten Domains of Application

The Representative Agent pattern applies broadly. We identify 
ten distinct domains, ordered by readiness for deployment 
(easiest first, most challenging last). Each section briefly 
outlines: who is the principal, who are counterparties, what 
the agent does, what makes it different from existing 
solutions.

h3. 4.1. Domain 1 — Knowledge Workers in Distributed Markets

_Principal_: Skilled engineer, designer, researcher, 
writer, consultant — operating outside traditional employment.

_Counterparties_: Companies, projects, foundations, clients 
seeking specialized work.

_Agent function_: Monitor opportunities, prepare 
applications, surface matches, negotiate basic terms.

_Existing solutions_: LinkedIn, Upwork, Toptal — but these 
require active self-marketing by the worker.

_What's different_: Worker can focus on craft. Agent does 
visibility work. Critical for retired experts, disabled 
specialists, geographically dispersed talent, career 
switchers, neurodivergent professionals.

_Deployment readiness_: High. This is the original case 
that motivated the OKWF concept.

h3. 4.2. Domain 2 — Retired Professionals and Volunteers

_Principal_: Retired teacher, doctor, engineer, civil 
servant with available time and unique expertise but no 
desire to actively seek "work".

_Counterparties_: Schools, charities, mentorship programs, 
foundation projects, civic organizations.

_Agent function_: Identify volunteer opportunities matching 
principal's expertise and capacity. Manage scheduling. 
Handle communications with multiple organizations.

_Existing solutions_: VolunteerMatch, Idealist — passive 
listings requiring active search.

_What's different_: Retired professional doesn't have to 
"job hunt" for volunteer work. Agent finds the right matches 
proactively. Particularly valuable for those experiencing 
post-retirement identity loss.

_Deployment readiness_: High. Volunteer matching is well-defined 
problem space.

h3. 4.3. Domain 3 — Social Workers Managing Client Caseloads

_Principal_: Social worker, case manager, community organizer 
managing many clients with complex needs.

_Counterparties_: Service providers, government agencies, 
community resources, fellow social workers.

_Agent function_: Track each client's status across 
multiple service systems. Alert worker to deadlines, 
opportunities, complications. Draft routine communications. 
Prepare client-specific resource summaries.

_Critical clarification_: The agent represents the **social 
worker**, not the clients directly. It serves the worker's 
ability to advocate for clients. Direct client representation 
is more sensitive (see Domain 4).

_Existing solutions_: Case management software (Penelope, 
Casebook, etc.) — typically database-oriented, not proactive.

_What's different_: Proactive advocacy. Agent surfaces 
opportunities for clients without requiring worker's manual 
search. Reduces caseload-fatigue. Helps social workers serve 
more clients more effectively.

_Deployment readiness_: Medium. Requires careful design 
around privacy and data governance, but no fundamental 
technical barriers.

_Concrete example_: A social worker in Diakonie or 
Caritas managing 25 elderly clients. Each client has 
unique needs (medical, housing, social, financial). The 
agent monitors program announcements, deadline changes, 
new community resources. When a relevant opportunity 
emerges for client X (e.g., a new home-delivered meals 
program), the agent flags it to the worker with relevant 
context. The worker decides whether to apply, but the 
discovery work is done.

h3. 4.4. Domain 4 — Vulnerable Citizens Navigating Bureaucracy

_Principal_: Disabled person navigating welfare system. 
Elderly person managing multiple government services. 
Immigrant navigating legal procedures. Person with mental 
illness managing healthcare bureaucracy.

_Counterparties_: Government agencies, courts, healthcare 
systems, advocacy organizations.

_Agent function_: Track all open procedures and deadlines. 
Decode bureaucratic communications. Draft responses. 
Identify entitlements not yet claimed. Flag procedural 
errors by authorities. Connect with appropriate human 
advocates when complexity exceeds AI capability.

_Existing solutions_: Legal aid (severely underfunded), 
advocacy organizations (selective), private lawyers 
(unaffordable).

_What's different_: Universal access to procedural 
representation. Citizen who would otherwise lose entitlement 
through procedural failure has effective advocate.

_Deployment readiness_: Medium-High. Some pilot work 
exists (e.g., DoNotPay had early version of this concept), 
but mostly limited to single domains.

_Critical caveat_: Must be paired with human advocate 
escalation. AI agent _cannot replace_ lawyer for serious 
legal matters. Must clearly communicate limitations to 
principal.

_Personal note from author_: This is the domain where the 
author currently engages, navigating Sozialgericht proceedings 
with disability status. The need is intensely felt. Existing 
infrastructure is insufficient. Representative Agent for 
disability/social-law contexts could substantially improve 
access to entitlements for millions of people.

h3. 4.5. Domain 5 — Caregivers Managing Dependents

_Principal_: Adult child caring for elderly parent. Parent 
caring for disabled child. Spouse caring for ill partner.

_Counterparties_: Healthcare providers, insurance, 
government services, support organizations.

_Agent function_: Centralize information across multiple 
care contexts. Monitor for service changes. Schedule and 
remind. Draft communications. Identify support resources 
for the caregiver themselves (often overlooked).

_Existing solutions_: CaringBridge, Lotsa Helping Hands — 
mostly focused on coordination among caregivers, not on 
representation across systems.

_What's different_: Single point of coordination across 
fragmented care systems. Reduces caregiver cognitive load 
significantly.

_Deployment readiness_: Medium. Requires careful privacy 
design (HIPAA in US, equivalent elsewhere). Data sensitivity 
is high.

h3. 4.6. Domain 6 — Small Business Owners and Solo Entrepreneurs

_Principal_: Small shop owner, solo consultant, micro-business 
operator without staff for marketing, customer service, 
admin.

_Counterparties_: Customers, suppliers, regulators, 
financial services.

_Agent function_: Monitor customer inquiries across channels. 
Draft responses. Track regulatory deadlines. Identify 
opportunities (grants for small business, new market trends). 
Manage routine communications.

_Existing solutions_: CRM tools, marketing automation — 
require active configuration and don't truly proactively 
represent.

_What's different_: Owner can focus on craft (their 
restaurant, their consulting, their small workshop) while 
agent handles business-development overhead. Particularly 
valuable for micro-entrepreneurs who would otherwise hire 
no staff.

_Deployment readiness_: Medium. Plenty of point solutions 
exist, but integration into a unified representative agent 
is novel.

h3. 4.7. Domain 7 — Patients Managing Chronic Conditions

_Principal_: Patient with chronic illness or complex 
condition requiring ongoing management.

_Counterparties_: Healthcare providers, insurance, 
employers, support communities, family.

_Agent function_: Track condition. Alert to upcoming 
appointments, refills, lab results. Translate medical 
communications. Monitor for new treatments, clinical trials. 
Coordinate among providers (currently a major gap).

_Existing solutions_: Patient portals, but each provider 
has separate portal with no integration.

_What's different_: Patient-centric integration across all 
care providers. Proactive monitoring for relevant new 
information.

_Deployment readiness_: Medium-Low. Healthcare data 
regulations (HIPAA, GDPR Article 9) make this challenging. 
But high impact when achieved.

h3. 4.8. Domain 8 — Students Navigating Educational Systems

_Principal_: Student (especially first-generation college, 
non-traditional learners, students with disabilities) 
navigating complex educational bureaucracy.

_Counterparties_: Universities, financial aid offices, 
academic advisors, scholarship organizations.

_Agent function_: Monitor opportunities (scholarships, 
research programs, internships). Decode institutional 
communications. Track deadlines. Identify entitlements. 
Connect with relevant advisors.

_Existing solutions_: University career services 
(under-resourced), private college counselors 
(unaffordable for many).

_What's different_: Universal access to navigation 
support. Particularly valuable for first-gen students 
who lack family knowledge of academic systems.

_Deployment readiness_: Medium.

h3. 4.9. Domain 9 — Communities Negotiating with Institutions

_Principal_: Tenants association negotiating with landlord. 
Neighborhood association engaging with city government. 
Worker collective dealing with employer.

_Counterparties_: Institutional powers (governments, 
corporations, large landlords).

_Agent function_: Coordinate across community members. 
Maintain consistent position across communications. 
Research relevant law and precedent. Draft formal 
documents. Identify allies.

_Existing solutions_: Community organizers (limited 
capacity), civil society lawyers (limited availability).

_What's different_: Communities can match institutional 
sophistication. Power asymmetry reduced.

_Deployment readiness_: Medium-Low. Requires careful 
governance to prevent agent capture by sub-groups within 
community. But potentially transformative for civil 
society balance.

h3. 4.10. Domain 10 — Future Generations and Non-Human Stakeholders

_Principal_: Conceptual — those who cannot represent 
themselves: future generations affected by current 
decisions, ecosystems impacted by policy, animals in 
human-modified environments.

_Counterparties_: Decision-making institutions making 
choices that will affect these stakeholders.

_Agent function_: Articulate likely interests of 
unrepresented stakeholders. Surface considerations 
otherwise omitted. Provide structured input to 
deliberative processes.

_Existing solutions_: Some advocacy organizations 
attempt this. Limited and contested.

_What's different_: Systematic representation of 
non-self-representing stakeholders in institutional 
decisions. Highly speculative but potentially important.

_Deployment readiness_: Low. Requires significant 
philosophical and political development. Included for 
conceptual completeness, not immediate deployment.

h3. 4.11. Cross-Cutting Observations

These ten domains share structural features:

* Principal lacks _capacity_ to navigate complexity
* Counterparty has _systemic advantages_ in negotiation
* _Discovery, navigation, negotiation_ are bottlenecks
* Existing _representation infrastructure_ is insufficient
* AI representation has _transformative potential_ if 
  properly designed

They differ in:

* _Privacy sensitivity_ (highest in healthcare, social 
  services)
* _Regulatory complexity_ (highest in legal, healthcare)
* _Adversarial dynamics_ (highest in legal, community 
  organizing)
* _Required AI capability_ (highest in domains 4, 7, 9)

Phased deployment should start with **less sensitive, less 
adversarial, less regulated** domains (1, 2, 6, 8) before 
tackling more challenging ones (3, 4, 5, 7, 9, 10).

----



----

_Похожие документы:_
* [[186-appendix-c-sample-use-cases-in-detail]] (сходство 0.16)
* [[219-8-pilot-proposal-sgb-advocate-colleague]] (сходство 0.15)
* [[171-2-historical-precedents-agents-as-civilizational-i]] (сходство 0.14)




----

_Смотрите также:_
* [[186-appendix-c-sample-use-cases-in-detail]]
* [[219-8-pilot-proposal-sgb-advocate-colleague]]
* [[218-7-application-domains]]
* [[171-2-historical-precedents-agents-as-civilizational-i]]


h2. Упоминается в

* [[README|Вакансии Anthropic — Анализ по кластерам]]
