{info:title=Источник}
Сгенерировано из: {{docs/obsidian/02-anthropic-vacancies/174-5-architectural-specification.md}}
Дата: 2026-04-29
{info}

----
title: "5. Architectural Specification"
tags:
  * anthropic-vacancies
date: 2026-04-29
----

h1. 5. Architectural Specification


{quote}A Representative Agent system consists of seven components:{quote}

----


h2. Содержание

* [5. Architectural Specification|#5-architectural-specification]
  * [5.1. Core Components|#51-core-components]
  * [5.2. Operating Principles|#52-operating-principles]
  * [5.3. Technical Stack|#53-technical-stack]
  * [5.4. Integration with Double-Triangle Architecture|#54-integration-with-double-triangle-architecture]

----






h2. 5. Architectural Specification

h3. 5.1. Core Components

A Representative Agent system consists of seven components:

_Component 1 — Principal Profile_: Comprehensive 
representation of the principal's expertise, capacity, 
preferences, history, goals, constraints. Constructed 
through onboarding interview, refined through ongoing 
interaction. Owned by principal, modifiable by principal.

_Component 2 — Discovery Engine_: Continuously monitors 
relevant domains for opportunities. Sources include: 
public job boards, RSS feeds, partner systems, peer 
networks, regulatory announcements. Outputs a stream of 
candidate opportunities.

_Component 3 — Curation Filter_: Evaluates each 
opportunity against profile fit, capacity match, 
preference alignment. Outputs ranked shortlist. 
Conservative by default — better to surface fewer high-fit 
opportunities than overwhelm.

_Component 4 — Presentation Generator_: Crafts 
counterparty-appropriate presentations of the principal 
when relevant opportunity is found. Translates principal's 
value into target's language. Preserves principal's voice 
where possible.

_Component 5 — Communication Manager_: Handles ongoing 
correspondence with counterparties. Initial outreach, 
clarification, scheduling. Surfaces complex decisions to 
principal. Operates within bounds set by principal.

_Component 6 — Protection Monitor_: Identifies risks, 
inconsistencies, scams, exploitation. Alerts principal to 
warning signs. Maintains skeptical posture toward 
counterparties.

_Component 7 — Audit Log_: Comprehensive record of all 
agent decisions and communications. Enables principal 
review, dispute resolution, accountability.

h3. 5.2. Operating Principles

Six principles govern agent behavior:

_Principle 1 — Principal Authority_: Final authority on 
all consequential decisions remains with principal. Agent 
recommends, principal decides.

_Principle 2 — Transparent Operation_: All agent actions 
are visible to principal upon request. No hidden actions 
or communications.

_Principle 3 — Conservative Default_: When uncertain, 
agent surfaces decision to principal rather than acting 
independently. Better to over-consult than overstep.

_Principle 4 — Loyalty_: Agent serves only principal's 
interests. No conflicts of interest with platforms, 
counterparties, or third parties.

_Principle 5 — Capability Honesty_: Agent acknowledges 
limits of its capabilities. When complexity exceeds 
agent capability, agent escalates to human professional.

_Principle 6 — Reversibility_: All agent actions are 
reversible to extent possible. Principal can override, 
withdraw, modify any agent decision.

h3. 5.3. Technical Stack

_Large Language Models_: Foundation for natural language 
understanding, generation, communication. Multiple model 
support (Claude, GPT, local models like Qwen) for 
redundancy and choice.

_Persistent Memory_: Long-term storage of profile, 
history, relationships. Vector databases for semantic 
retrieval. Structured data for transactional records.

_Federation Protocol_: Standard interfaces for agents 
to interact with external systems and other agents. 
Nautilus Portal Protocol provides foundation.

_Encryption and Access Control_: All sensitive data 
encrypted at rest and in transit. Granular permissions 
for what agent can access in principal's data.

_Audit Infrastructure_: Tamper-resistant logging of 
all agent actions for accountability.

_User Interface_: Multi-modal access (web, mobile, 
voice) appropriate to principal's accessibility needs. 
Particularly important for elderly, disabled, or 
technology-unfamiliar principals.

h3. 5.4. Integration with Double-Triangle Architecture

Representative Agents operate at the **boundary between 
Lower Triangle and outside world** in Double-Triangle 
Architecture. They are:

* Owned by Node (principal)
* Distinct from Node's task-execution assistants
* Interact with Meta-agents and external systems
* Represent Node's interests in those interactions

In Star of David topology, the Representative Agent is 
the _outer boundary_ of the Lower Triangle — the layer 
that touches the world beyond the personal context.

----



----

_Похожие документы:_
* [[172-3-what-makes-a-representative-agent]] (сходство 0.20)
* [[175-6-ethical-framework]] (сходство 0.14)
* [[158-4-proposed-infrastructure]] (сходство 0.14)




----

_Смотрите также:_
* [[172-3-what-makes-a-representative-agent]]
* [[175-6-ethical-framework]]
* [[177-8-risks-and-mitigations]]
* [[158-4-proposed-infrastructure]]


h2. Упоминается в

* [[README|Вакансии Anthropic — Анализ по кластерам]]


h2. Связанные документы

* [[172-3-what-makes-a-representative-agent|3. What Makes a Representative Agent]] _29%_
* [[208-professional-colleague-agents-md|PROFESSIONAL COLLEAGUE AGENTS.md]] _29%_
* [[262-9-integration-with-okwf-infrastructure|9. Integration with OKWF Infrastructure]] _29%_
* [[134-the-double-triangle-architecture-md|THE DOUBLE-TRIANGLE ARCHITECTURE.md]] _25%_
* [[144-7-open-questions|7. Open Questions]] _25%_
* [[168-abstract|Abstract]] _25%_
* [[179-10-open-questions|10. Open Questions]] _25%_
* [[187-слой-представительских-агентов-md|СЛОЙ ПРЕДСТАВИТЕЛЬСКИХ АГЕНТОВ.md]] _25%_
