{info:title=Источник}
Сгенерировано из: {{docs/obsidian/02-anthropic-vacancies/178-9-phased-rollout-strategy.md}}
Дата: 2026-04-29
{info}

----
title: "9. Phased Rollout Strategy"
tags:
  * roadmap
  * anthropic-vacancies
date: 2026-04-29
----

h1. 9. Phased Rollout Strategy


h2. Содержание

* [Contents|#contents]
* [9. Phased Rollout Strategy|#9-phased-rollout-strategy]
  * [9.1. Phase 0 — Foundation (Months 1-12)|#91-phase-0-foundation-months-1-12]
  * [9.2. Phase 1 — Single Domain Maturation (Year 2)|#92-phase-1-single-domain-maturation-year-2]
  * [9.3. Phase 2 — Domain Expansion (Years 3-4)|#93-phase-2-domain-expansion-years-3-4]
  * [9.4. Phase 3 — High-Stakes Domain Deployment (Years 4-6)|#94-phase-3-high-stakes-domain-deployment-years-4-6]
  * [9.5. Phase 4 — Mature Infrastructure (Year 6+)|#95-phase-4-mature-infrastructure-year-6]
  * [9.6. Pace Considerations|#96-pace-considerations]
* [Упоминается в|#упоминается-в]
* [Связанные документы|#связанные-документы]

----



h2. Contents

* [9. Phased Rollout Strategy|#9-phased-rollout-strategy]
  * [9.1. Phase 0 — Foundation (Months 1-12)|#91-phase-0-foundation-months-1-12]
  * [9.2. Phase 1 — Single Domain Maturation (Year 2)|#92-phase-1-single-domain-maturation-year-2]
  * [9.3. Phase 2 — Domain Expansion (Years 3-4)|#93-phase-2-domain-expansion-years-3-4]
  * [9.4. Phase 3 — High-Stakes Domain Deployment (Years 4-6)|#94-phase-3-high-stakes-domain-deployment-years-4-6]
  * [9.5. Phase 4 — Mature Infrastructure (Year 6+)|#95-phase-4-mature-infrastructure-year-6]
  * [9.6. Pace Considerations|#96-pace-considerations]



{quote}A responsible deployment of Representative Agent technology{quote}

----





h2. 9. Phased Rollout Strategy

A responsible deployment of Representative Agent technology 
proceeds in five phases.

h3. 9.1. Phase 0 — Foundation (Months 1-12)

_Activities_:
* Establish governance framework
* Recruit founding principal cohort (50-100 individuals)
* Build core technical infrastructure
* Develop initial agent for one domain (recommend Domain 
  1: Knowledge Workers)
* Pilot deployment with small group

_Success criteria_:
* Working reference implementation
* Pilot principals report meaningful benefit
* No major ethical or safety incidents
* Funding secured for Phase 1

h3. 9.2. Phase 1 — Single Domain Maturation (Year 2)

_Activities_:
* Scale Phase 0 domain to 1,000+ principals
* Refine agent capabilities through user feedback
* Establish operational procedures
* Document learnings for replication
* Begin initial work on second domain

_Success criteria_:
* Stable platform serving 1,000+ principals
* Measurable positive outcomes
* Sustainable operational model
* Regulatory dialogue established

h3. 9.3. Phase 2 — Domain Expansion (Years 3-4)

_Activities_:
* Add domains 2 (retired professionals) and 8 (students) 
  — both relatively low-risk extensions
* Begin pilot work in domain 3 (social workers) with 
  partner organization
* International expansion (initially to one additional 
  country/language)

_Success criteria_:
* 10,000+ principals across 3-4 domains
* First international deployment functional
* Partnership with established social services 
  organization

h3. 9.4. Phase 3 — High-Stakes Domain Deployment (Years 4-6)

_Activities_:
* Domain 4 (vulnerable citizens navigating bureaucracy) 
  with intensive partnership with legal aid organizations
* Domain 5 (caregivers) with health system partners
* Increased regulatory engagement
* Independent academic study of outcomes

_Success criteria_:
* Demonstrable improvement in access for vulnerable 
  populations
* Regulatory frameworks adapted appropriately
* Academic literature documents pattern

h3. 9.5. Phase 4 — Mature Infrastructure (Year 6+)

_Activities_:
* All ten domains in some level of deployment
* Multiple platforms competing within standards 
  framework
* Established field of research and practice
* Influence on policy and regulation

_Success criteria_:
* Representative Agents are accepted infrastructure
* Beneficial outcomes for millions of previously 
  underrepresented people
* Healthy ecosystem of providers within ethical 
  framework

h3. 9.6. Pace Considerations

This rollout is _deliberately conservative_. Faster 
deployment is technically possible but risks:

* Premature promises that erode trust when broken
* Ethical missteps that trigger restrictive regulation
* Platform dynamics that exclude vulnerable populations
* Loss of mission focus to commercial pressures

Slow, careful deployment is more likely to result in 
durable, beneficial infrastructure than rapid scaling.

----



----

_Похожие документы:_
* [[161-7-phased-rollout-plan]] (сходство 0.17)
* [[219-8-pilot-proposal-sgb-advocate-colleague]] (сходство 0.14)
* [[180-11-call-for-collaboration]] (сходство 0.14)




----

_Смотрите также:_
* [[161-7-phased-rollout-plan]]
* [[180-11-call-for-collaboration]]
* [[219-8-pilot-proposal-sgb-advocate-colleague]]
* [[223-12-closing]]


h2. Упоминается в

* [[README|Вакансии Anthropic — Анализ по кластерам]]


h2. Связанные документы

* [[161-7-phased-rollout-plan|7. Phased Rollout Plan]] _29%_
* [[219-8-pilot-proposal-sgb-advocate-colleague|8. Pilot Proposal: SGB Advocate Colleague]] _21%_
* [[159-5-economic-model|5. Economic Model]] _17%_
* [[180-11-call-for-collaboration|11. Call for Collaboration]] _17%_
* [[262-9-integration-with-okwf-infrastructure|9. Integration with OKWF Infrastructure]] _17%_
* [[CONCEPTS|Глоссарий понятий]] _17%_
