{info:title=Источник}
Сгенерировано из: {{docs/obsidian/02-anthropic-vacancies/180-11-call-for-collaboration.md}}
Дата: 2026-04-29
{info}

----
title: "11. Call for Collaboration"
tags:
  * ingestion
  * anthropic-vacancies
date: 2026-04-29
----

h1. 11. Call for Collaboration


{quote}_Абстракт_ (авто){quote}
>
{quote}🎯 _Проблема:_ Pilot partnerships allow the technology to develop in service of actual need rather than imagined need.{quote}
{quote}🔧 _Подход:_ Your needs should drive design decisions.{quote}
{quote}🏷️ _Ключевые слова:_ {{collaboration}}, {{organizations}}, {{invite}}, {{anthropic}}, {{vacancies}}, {{social}}, {{critics}}, {{researchers}}{quote}
>



h2. Contents

* [11. Call for Collaboration|#11-call-for-collaboration]
  * [11.1. For AI Researchers|#111-for-ai-researchers]
  * [11.2. For Social Service Organizations|#112-for-social-service-organizations]
  * [11.3. For Disability Rights Organizations|#113-for-disability-rights-organizations]
  * [11.4. For Foundation Funders|#114-for-foundation-funders]
  * [11.5. For Policymakers|#115-for-policymakers]
  * [11.6. For Potential Principals|#116-for-potential-principals]
  * [11.7. For Critics|#117-for-critics]



{quote}This paper is offered as starting point, not finished{quote}

----





h2. 11. Call for Collaboration

This paper is offered as starting point, not finished 
work. We invite collaboration from multiple constituencies.

h3. 11.1. For AI Researchers

The technical challenges in Section 10.1 are concrete 
research problems. Adversarial robustness, multi-agent 
negotiation, principal-agent alignment — each could 
sustain a dissertation or research program. We invite 
researchers to engage with these problems.

h3. 11.2. For Social Service Organizations

Domain 3 (social workers) and Domain 5 (caregivers) 
in particular need pilot partners who serve 
real populations. Diakonie, Caritas, Volkssolidarität 
in Germany. Equivalent organizations elsewhere. 
Pilot partnerships allow the technology to develop 
in service of actual need rather than imagined need.

h3. 11.3. For Disability Rights Organizations

Domain 4 (vulnerable citizens navigating bureaucracy) 
directly addresses needs faced by disabled communities. 
Disability rights organizations have crucial 
perspective on what works, what fails, what's needed. 
We invite their leadership.

h3. 11.4. For Foundation Funders

Representative Agent infrastructure cannot be built 
purely commercially. Foundation funding is essential 
for research, ethical framework development, and 
deployment to populations who cannot pay. We invite 
foundations whose missions touch these areas.

h3. 11.5. For Policymakers

Regulatory frameworks for representative agents will 
emerge — either thoughtfully, through dialogue with 
practitioners, or restrictively, through reaction to 
incidents. We invite policymakers to engage early 
when technology is shapable.

h3. 11.6. For Potential Principals

Most importantly, we invite people who could benefit 
from representative agents — retired experts, disabled 
specialists, caregivers, social workers, vulnerable 
citizens — to engage with this work. Tell us what you 
need. Tell us what you fear. Tell us what would help. 
Your needs should drive design decisions.

h3. 11.7. For Critics

Finally, we invite skeptics and critics. The risks in 
Section 8 are real. The questions in Section 10 are 
hard. Rigorous critique will improve the work. We 
prefer honest critics to unreserved enthusiasts.

----



----

_Похожие документы:_
* [[265-12-call-for-collaboration]] (сходство 0.16)
* [[178-9-phased-rollout-strategy]] (сходство 0.14)
* [[223-12-closing]] (сходство 0.13)




----

_Смотрите также:_
* [[265-12-call-for-collaboration]]
* [[178-9-phased-rollout-strategy]]
* [[223-12-closing]]
* [[168-abstract]]

