{info:title=Источник}
Сгенерировано из: {{docs/obsidian/02-anthropic-vacancies/183-references.md}}
Дата: 2026-04-29
{info}

----
title: "References"
tags:
  * collaboration
  * anthropic-vacancies
date: 2026-04-29
----

h1. References


h2. Contents

* [References|#references]
  * [Foundational Sources|#foundational-sources]
  * [Principal-Agent Theory|#principal-agent-theory]
  * [Disability and Access|#disability-and-access]
  * [Modern AI Ethics|#modern-ai-ethics]
  * [Companion Documents|#companion-documents]



{quote}- Akerlof, G. (1970). "The Market for Lemons: Quality{quote}

----





h2. References

h3. Foundational Sources

* Akerlof, G. (1970). "The Market for Lemons: Quality 
  Uncertainty and the Market Mechanism". *Quarterly 
  Journal of Economics*.
* Merton, R. K. (1968). "The Matthew Effect in Science". 
  _Science_.
* Simon, H. A. (1971). "Designing Organizations for an 
  Information-Rich World". In: *Computers, Communications, 
  and the Public Interest*.

h3. Principal-Agent Theory

* Eisenhardt, K. M. (1989). "Agency Theory: An Assessment 
  and Review". _Academy of Management Review_.
* Jensen, M. C., & Meckling, W. H. (1976). "Theory of the 
  Firm: Managerial Behavior, Agency Costs and Ownership 
  Structure". _Journal of Financial Economics_.

h3. Disability and Access

* Shakespeare, T. (2018). _Disability: The Basics_. Routledge.
* Wendell, S. (1996). *The Rejected Body: Feminist 
  Philosophical Reflections on Disability*. Routledge.

h3. Modern AI Ethics

* Floridi, L., & Cowls, J. (2019). "A Unified Framework 
  of Five Principles for AI in Society". *Harvard Data 
  Science Review*.
* Mittelstadt, B., et al. (2016). "The Ethics of Algorithms: 
  Mapping the Debate". _Big Data & Society_.

h3. Companion Documents

* svend4 (2026). *Open Knowledge Work Foundation Concept 
  Document v1.0*.
* svend4 (2026). *The Double-Triangle Architecture 
  v1.0*.
* svend4 (2026). _Nautilus Portal Protocol v1.1_.

----



----

_Похожие документы:_
* [[204-ссылки]] (сходство 0.24)
* [[225-references]] (сходство 0.22)
* [[209-a-typology-of-ai-agents-on-the-principal-side-and-]] (сходство 0.17)




----

_Смотрите также:_
* [[204-ссылки]]
* [[225-references]]
* [[251-ai-support-through-configurable-specialist-ensembl]]
* [[209-a-typology-of-ai-agents-on-the-principal-side-and-]]


h2. Упоминается в

* [[README|Вакансии Anthropic — Анализ по кластерам]]


h2. Связанные документы

* [[184-appendix-a-connection-to-companion-papers|Appendix A: Connection to Companion Papers]] _25%_
* [[211-table-of-contents|Table of Contents]] _25%_
* [[225-references|References]] _25%_
* [[268-references|References]] _25%_
* [[146-acknowledgments|Acknowledgments]] _21%_
* [[147-references|References]] _21%_
* [[167-ai-mediated-representation-for-underrepresented-ex|AI-Mediated Representation for Underrepresented Experts and Vulnerable Populations]] _21%_
* [[182-acknowledgments|Acknowledgments]] _21%_
