{info:title=Источник}
Сгенерировано из: {{docs/obsidian/02-anthropic-vacancies/184-appendix-a-connection-to-companion-papers.md}}
Дата: 2026-04-29
{info}

----
title: "Appendix A: Connection to Companion Papers"
tags:
  * architecture
  * anthropic
  * anthropic-vacancies
date: 2026-04-29
----

h1. Appendix A: Connection to Companion Papers


{quote}This paper builds on three previous documents:{quote}

----





h2. Appendix A: Connection to Companion Papers

This paper builds on three previous documents:

_Nautilus Portal Protocol v1.1_ provides the technical 
substrate for federation between agents and knowledge 
sources. Representative Agents are participants in NPP-style 
federations.

_Double-Triangle Architecture v1.0_ provides the 
coordination pattern. Representative Agents operate at 
the boundary of the Lower Triangle, mediating between 
principal and external world.

_Open Knowledge Work Foundation Concept Document v1.0_ 
provides the institutional framework. OKWF is a candidate 
home for Representative Agent infrastructure development 
within mission-driven foundation context.

These four documents form coherent vision of human-AI 
collaboration infrastructure for distributed knowledge 
work and beyond.

----



----

_Похожие документы:_
* [[209-a-typology-of-ai-agents-on-the-principal-side-and-]] (сходство 0.24)
* [[251-ai-support-through-configurable-specialist-ensembl]] (сходство 0.22)
* [[274-the-missing-middle-layer-between-chat-and-code]] (сходство 0.21)




----

_Смотрите также:_
* [[209-a-typology-of-ai-agents-on-the-principal-side-and-]]
* [[251-ai-support-through-configurable-specialist-ensembl]]
* [[274-the-missing-middle-layer-between-chat-and-code]]
* [[167-ai-mediated-representation-for-underrepresented-ex]]


h2. Упоминается в

* [[README|Вакансии Anthropic — Анализ по кластерам]]


h2. Связанные документы

* [[209-a-typology-of-ai-agents-on-the-principal-side-and-|A Typology of AI Agents on the Principal Side and the Case for Profession-Specific Co-Workers]] _66%_
* [[251-ai-support-through-configurable-specialist-ensembl|AI Support Through Configurable Specialist Ensembles]] _66%_
* [[306-with-anthropic-s-cowork-platform|with Anthropic's Cowork Platform]] _66%_
* [[355-существующие-документы-dhlab-твой-context|Существующие документы DHLab (твой context)]] _66%_
* [[274-the-missing-middle-layer-between-chat-and-code|The Missing Middle Layer Between Chat and Code]] _48%_
* [[146-acknowledgments|Acknowledgments]] _42%_
* [[167-ai-mediated-representation-for-underrepresented-ex|AI-Mediated Representation for Underrepresented Experts and Vulnerable Populations]] _42%_
* [[268-references|References]] _37%_
