{info:title=Источник}
Сгенерировано из: {{docs/obsidian/02-anthropic-vacancies/210-abstract.md}}
Дата: 2026-04-29
{info}

----
title: "Abstract"
tags:
  * rag
  * architecture
  * roadmap
  * anthropic-vacancies
date: 2026-04-29
----

h1. Abstract


{quote}Building on the Representative Agent Layer paper, we observe{quote}

----





h2. Abstract

Building on the Representative Agent Layer paper, we observe
that "AI agents on the principal side" is not a single category
but a structured family of at least five distinct types: Personal
AI Assistants, Professional Colleague Agents, Institutional
Agents, Employee Agents, and Representative Agents. Each type
serves a different need, has different economics, requires
different governance, and proceeds at a different pace of
deployment.

This paper develops the Professional Colleague Agent category
in detail. We argue that Professional Colleague Agents are the
_lowest-friction, highest-leverage_ entry point for AI
deployment in skilled professions because they (a) operate
within already-standardized professional contexts, (b) augment
rather than replace the human professional, (c) externalize
no decisions to third parties, (d) replicate across all
practitioners of a profession with one investment, and (e)
relieve burdens that practitioners themselves recognize as
problems.

We document an empirical case study from Russian education
(the "Obuchay" / "Обучай" service, which grew from zero to
93,000 teacher-users in seven months in 2025-2026), develop
formal architecture and design principles, identify specific
risks unique to this category, and propose a deployment
strategy specifically applied to the German social-law domain
relevant to the author's work and to OKWF pilot opportunities.

We argue that Professional Colleague Agents should be the
_first production deployment_ of foundation-funded AI
infrastructure, with Representative Agents as a second-phase
extension once professionals have integrated AI partners into
their daily work.

----



----

_Похожие документы:_
* [[223-12-closing]] (сходство 0.30)
* [[252-abstract]] (сходство 0.18)
* [[220-9-relationship-to-other-agent-types]] (сходство 0.17)




----

_Смотрите также:_
* [[223-12-closing]]
* [[252-abstract]]
* [[220-9-relationship-to-other-agent-types]]
* [[211-table-of-contents]]


h2. Упоминается в

* [[README|Вакансии Anthropic — Анализ по кластерам]]


h2. Связанные документы

* [[223-12-closing|12. Closing]] _48%_
* [[220-9-relationship-to-other-agent-types|9. Relationship to Other Agent Types]] _37%_
* [[252-abstract|Abstract]] _33%_
* [[168-abstract|Abstract]] _29%_
* [[212-1-the-five-type-typology-of-principal-side-agents|1. The Five-Type Typology of Principal-Side Agents]] _29%_
* [[249-composite-skills-agent-md|COMPOSITE SKILLS AGENT.md]] _29%_
* [[151-open-knowledge-work-foundation-md|OPEN KNOWLEDGE WORK FOUNDATION.md]] _25%_
* [[208-professional-colleague-agents-md|PROFESSIONAL COLLEAGUE AGENTS.md]] _25%_
