{info:title=Источник}
Сгенерировано из: {{docs/obsidian/02-anthropic-vacancies/222-11-call-for-collaboration.md}}
Дата: 2026-04-29
{info}

----
title: "11. Call for Collaboration"
tags:
  * rag
  * architecture
  * anthropic-vacancies
date: 2026-04-29
----

h1. 11. Call for Collaboration


h2. Contents

* [11. Call for Collaboration|#11-call-for-collaboration]
  * [11.1. For Professional Practitioners|#111-for-professional-practitioners]
  * [11.2. For Domain Experts (Curators)|#112-for-domain-experts-curators]
  * [11.3. For Software Engineers|#113-for-software-engineers]
  * [11.4. For Foundation Funders|#114-for-foundation-funders]
  * [11.5. For Existing Professional Tool Vendors|#115-for-existing-professional-tool-vendors]
  * [11.6. For Researchers|#116-for-researchers]
  * [11.7. For Policy Stakeholders|#117-for-policy-stakeholders]



{quote}We invite specific kinds of collaboration:{quote}

----





h2. 11. Call for Collaboration

We invite specific kinds of collaboration:

h3. 11.1. For Professional Practitioners

**Especially in social law, education, healthcare, social
work**: Tell us what burdens you most. What routine work
absorbs your time? What would you delegate to an AI colleague?
What would you never delegate? Pilot participation invited.

h3. 11.2. For Domain Experts (Curators)

Layer A construction requires experts willing to encode
professional knowledge into structured form. This is detailed,
careful work. We need curators willing to invest time —
preferably compensated.

h3. 11.3. For Software Engineers

Build Layer B and C. Open-source contributions to reference
implementations welcome. Particularly engineers with
experience in:
* LLM application architecture
* Multi-language support
* Accessibility
* Privacy-preserving computation

h3. 11.4. For Foundation Funders

Foundation-funded Professional Colleague Agents are a
high-leverage mission opportunity. €0.5M-3M can deploy
agent for a profession of 10,000-100,000 practitioners.
Population impact through practitioner amplification is
substantial.

h3. 11.5. For Existing Professional Tool Vendors

Many existing tool vendors are evolving toward Professional
Colleague Agent capability. Open standards collaboration
accelerates field. Collaboration on Layer A standards
particularly valuable.

h3. 11.6. For Researchers

Empirical studies of Professional Colleague Agent deployment
needed. Effects on practice quality, profession evolution,
practitioner satisfaction, client outcomes. Several years
of deployment data now becoming available («Обучай», early
medical AI deployments).

h3. 11.7. For Policy Stakeholders

Regulatory frameworks for Professional Colleague Agents are
nascent. Liability, professional licensure interaction,
quality standards — all need development. Engagement with
practitioners during framework development valuable.

----



----

_Похожие документы:_
* [[265-12-call-for-collaboration]] (сходство 0.26)
* [[145-8-call-to-action]] (сходство 0.15)
* [[223-12-closing]] (сходство 0.13)




----

_Смотрите также:_
* [[265-12-call-for-collaboration]]
* [[145-8-call-to-action]]
* [[223-12-closing]]
* [[180-11-call-for-collaboration]]


h2. Упоминается в

* [[README|Вакансии Anthropic — Анализ по кластерам]]


h2. Связанные документы

* [[265-12-call-for-collaboration|12. Call for Collaboration]] _33%_
* [[180-11-call-for-collaboration|11. Call for Collaboration]] _21%_
* [[216-5-the-economics-of-profession-wide-replication|5. The Economics of Profession-Wide Replication]] _21%_
* [[219-8-pilot-proposal-sgb-advocate-colleague|8. Pilot Proposal: SGB Advocate Colleague]] _21%_
* [[221-10-open-questions|10. Open Questions]] _21%_
* [[223-12-closing|12. Closing]] _21%_
* [[151-open-knowledge-work-foundation-md|OPEN KNOWLEDGE WORK FOUNDATION.md]] _17%_
* [[210-abstract|Abstract]] _17%_
