{info:title=Источник}
Сгенерировано из: {{docs/obsidian/02-anthropic-vacancies/223-12-closing.md}}
Дата: 2026-04-29
{info}

----
title: "12. Closing"
tags:
  * architecture
  * roadmap
  * anthropic-vacancies
date: 2026-04-29
----

h1. 12. Closing


{quote}The Representative Agent Layer paper, when first written,{quote}

----





h2. 12. Closing

The Representative Agent Layer paper, when first written,
described AI agents on the principal side as a single new
category. Reflection — particularly through the empirical
case of «Обучай» and the architectural distinctions it
makes visible — reveals this was an oversimplification.

There are at least five distinct types of principal-side
agents, each with different characteristics, deployments,
risks, and timelines.

Of these, **Professional Colleague Agents are the most
deployable today**. They build on existing professional
infrastructure, augment rather than replace, externalize no
decisions, replicate efficiently across professions, and
address burdens practitioners themselves recognize.

This makes them the natural _first production deployment_
for foundation-funded AI infrastructure. Not because they
are most ambitious — Representative Agents are more
ambitious — but because they are most ready.

Within the Open Knowledge Work Foundation strategy, this
suggests revising the rollout plan: Professional Colleague
Agents first, Representative Agents in subsequent phases.
Specifically, an SGB Advocate Colleague pilot can demonstrate
the model and serve real need simultaneously.

The other types — Personal AI Assistants, Institutional
Agents, Employee Agents — also have their roles. A mature
deployment for any individual practitioner involves multiple
types operating together. But Professional Colleague Agents
are where to begin.

«Обучай»'s growth from zero to 93,000 teachers in seven
months suggests these systems, when well-designed and
addressing real burdens, achieve adoption rapidly. The
question is not whether Professional Colleague Agents will
proliferate — they will. The question is whether they
proliferate within frameworks of foundation governance,
practitioner ownership, professional standards, and ethical
care, or whether they emerge through commercial dynamics
alone.

The choice is, again, institutional rather than technological.
We propose the more careful path. We invite collaboration in
walking it.

----



----

_Похожие документы:_
* [[210-abstract]] (сходство 0.30)
* [[266-13-closing]] (сходство 0.21)
* [[220-9-relationship-to-other-agent-types]] (сходство 0.17)




----

_Смотрите также:_
* [[210-abstract]]
* [[266-13-closing]]
* [[220-9-relationship-to-other-agent-types]]
* [[252-abstract]]


h2. Упоминается в

* [[README|Вакансии Anthropic — Анализ по кластерам]]


h2. Связанные документы

* [[210-abstract|Abstract]] _48%_
* [[220-9-relationship-to-other-agent-types|9. Relationship to Other Agent Types]] _33%_
* [[252-abstract|Abstract]] _33%_
* [[212-1-the-five-type-typology-of-principal-side-agents|1. The Five-Type Typology of Principal-Side Agents]] _29%_
* [[227-appendix-b-decision-framework-when-to-build-type-1|Appendix B: Decision Framework — When to Build Type 1 First]] _29%_
* [[269-appendix-a-the-six-type-taxonomy-updated|Appendix A: The Six-Type Taxonomy (Updated)]] _29%_
* [[151-open-knowledge-work-foundation-md|OPEN KNOWLEDGE WORK FOUNDATION.md]] _25%_
* [[179-10-open-questions|10. Open Questions]] _25%_
