{info:title=Источник}
Сгенерировано из: {{docs/obsidian/02-anthropic-vacancies/224-acknowledgments.md}}
Дата: 2026-04-29
{info}

----
title: "Acknowledgments"
tags:
  * anthropic
  * anthropic-vacancies
date: 2026-04-29
----

h1. Acknowledgments


{quote}This paper emerged through dialogue with Claude (Anthropic){quote}

----





h2. Acknowledgments

This paper emerged through dialogue with Claude (Anthropic)
on April 26, 2026, prompted by author's review of the
Russian-language interview with Konstantin Chukavin in
Fontanka.ru describing «Обучай». The fivefold typology
of principal-side agents emerged from the user's observation
that "Representative Agent" was an insufficient category
to capture the full landscape.

Konstantin Chukavin's «Обучай» service serves as central
empirical reference. Public information from the Fontanka
interview informs case study. No formal partnership with
or endorsement of «Обучай» exists; it is documented as
publicly observable case.

The author retained editorial authority. All claims and
errors are author's responsibility.

----



----

_Похожие документы:_
* [[267-acknowledgments]] (сходство 0.20)
* [[182-acknowledgments]] (сходство 0.17)
* [[209-a-typology-of-ai-agents-on-the-principal-side-and-]] (сходство 0.15)




----

_Смотрите также:_
* [[267-acknowledgments]]
* [[211-table-of-contents]]
* [[209-a-typology-of-ai-agents-on-the-principal-side-and-]]
* [[251-ai-support-through-configurable-specialist-ensembl]]


h2. Упоминается в

* [[146-acknowledgments|Acknowledgments]]
* [[182-acknowledgments|Acknowledgments]]
* [[README|Вакансии Anthropic — Анализ по кластерам]]
h2. Упоминается в

* [[README|Вакансии Anthropic — Анализ по кластерам]]


h2. Связанные документы

* [[146-acknowledgments|Acknowledgments]] _48%_
* [[137-table-of-contents|Table of Contents]] _37%_
* [[182-acknowledgments|Acknowledgments]] _37%_
* [[274-the-missing-middle-layer-between-chat-and-code|The Missing Middle Layer Between Chat and Code]] _37%_
* [[306-with-anthropic-s-cowork-platform|with Anthropic's Cowork Platform]] _37%_
* [[184-appendix-a-connection-to-companion-papers|Appendix A: Connection to Companion Papers]] _33%_
* [[355-существующие-документы-dhlab-твой-context|Существующие документы DHLab (твой context)]] _33%_
* [[167-ai-mediated-representation-for-underrepresented-ex|AI-Mediated Representation for Underrepresented Experts and Vulnerable Populations]] _29%_
h2. Связанные документы

* [[182-acknowledgments|Acknowledgments]] _48%_
* [[146-acknowledgments|Acknowledgments]] _42%_
* [[167-ai-mediated-representation-for-underrepresented-ex|AI-Mediated Representation for Underrepresented Experts and Vulnerable Populations]] _29%_
* [[251-ai-support-through-configurable-specialist-ensembl|AI Support Through Configurable Specialist Ensembles]] _29%_
* [[274-the-missing-middle-layer-between-chat-and-code|The Missing Middle Layer Between Chat and Code]] _29%_
* [[184-appendix-a-connection-to-companion-papers|Appendix A: Connection to Companion Papers]] _25%_
* [[211-table-of-contents|Table of Contents]] _25%_
* [[183-references|References]] _21%_
