{info:title=Источник}
Сгенерировано из: {{docs/obsidian/02-anthropic-vacancies/261-8-seven-domains-of-application.md}}
Дата: 2026-04-29
{info}

----
title: "8. Seven Domains of Application"
tags:
  * anthropic-vacancies
date: 2026-04-29
----

h1. 8. Seven Domains of Application


{quote}_Абстракт_ (авто){quote}
>
{quote}🎯 _Проблема:_ Typical configurations: A jazz pianist who teaches has different needs from a classical violinist, who has different needs from an electronic music producer.{quote}
{quote}🔧 _Подход:_ Typical configurations: A computational biologist working on epidemiology with humanities co-authors faces unique configuration needs combining biology, computer science, epidemiol{quote}
{quote}✅ _Результат:_ Pattern Across Domains What unites these domains: - Practice is deeply specialized, but specialization combines rather than replaces general profession competency - Practitioners t{quote}
{quote}🏷️ _Ключевые слова:_ {{domain}}, {{specific}}, {{domains}}, {{practice}}, {{pattern}}, {{agents}}, {{configurations}}, {{application}}{quote}
>


{quote}[!TIP]{quote}
{quote}Документ содержит практические рекомендации и лучшие практики.{quote}




{quote}Composite Skills Agents apply naturally to professions where{quote}

----


h2. Содержание

* [8. Seven Domains of Application|#8-seven-domains-of-application]
  * [8.1. Domain 1 — Music Education and Performance|#81-domain-1-music-education-and-performance]
  * [8.2. Domain 2 — Visual and Creative Arts|#82-domain-2-visual-and-creative-arts]
  * [8.3. Domain 3 — Specialized Legal Practice|#83-domain-3-specialized-legal-practice]
  * [8.4. Domain 4 — Medical Practice with Multiple Specialties|#84-domain-4-medical-practice-with-multiple-specialties]
  * [8.5. Domain 5 — Technical Architecture and Engineering|#85-domain-5-technical-architecture-and-engineering]
  * [8.6. Domain 6 — Academic Research and Cross-Disciplinary Work|#86-domain-6-academic-research-and-cross-disciplinary-work]
  * [8.7. Domain 7 — Therapeutic Practice and Mental Health|#87-domain-7-therapeutic-practice-and-mental-health]
  * [8.8. Pattern Across Domains|#88-pattern-across-domains]

----






h2. 8. Seven Domains of Application

Composite Skills Agents apply naturally to professions where 
practice typically combines specializations. We identify seven 
domains where the pattern fits especially well.

h3. 8.1. Domain 1 — Music Education and Performance

_Sub-agent specializations might include_: Classical 
composition, jazz improvisation, electronic music production, 
specific instruments (piano, violin, voice, etc.), genres 
(folk traditions, contemporary, baroque), pedagogy (children, 
adults, beginners, advanced), technical skills (music theory, 
ear training, sight-reading), accompanying disciplines (audio 
engineering, music history, ethnomusicology).

_Typical configurations_: A jazz pianist who teaches has 
different needs from a classical violinist, who has different 
needs from an electronic music producer. Each builds their 
own configuration from the available sub-agents.

_Existing analog_: This pattern is already embodied in how 
musicians actually train — studying with multiple teachers in 
different specialties — but no AI infrastructure currently 
supports it.

h3. 8.2. Domain 2 — Visual and Creative Arts

_Sub-agent specializations might include_: Drawing fundamentals, 
painting techniques, digital illustration, animation, sculpture, 
photography, color theory, composition, art history (by period 
or movement), specific tools (Adobe Creative Suite, Procreate, 
Blender), business skills (gallery work, commission management, 
intellectual property).

_Typical configurations_: A digital illustrator who also does 
traditional sketching and runs a small business has very 
different needs from a fine arts painter focused on gallery 
representation.

_Bridge to existing infrastructure_: Many artists already 
combine multiple educational sources (online courses, traditional 
training, peer learning). Composite agents formalize and 
augment this practice.

h3. 8.3. Domain 3 — Specialized Legal Practice

_Sub-agent specializations might include_: Specific area of 
law (social, criminal, family, immigration), procedural 
expertise (specific courts, jurisdictions), client population 
(elderly, disabled, immigrants, children), language (German, 
English, Russian, etc.), technical skills (drafting, oral 
advocacy, negotiation), supporting fields (medical understanding, 
psychological assessment).

_Typical configurations_: A lawyer specializing in disability 
rights for migrants speaks both German and the migrant's 
language and has medical understanding for assessing claims — 
a combination requiring multiple sub-agents.

_Practical pilot_: This is the SGB Advocate Colleague case 
discussed in detail in Section 7.5.

h3. 8.4. Domain 4 — Medical Practice with Multiple Specialties

_Sub-agent specializations might include_: Specific organ 
systems, types of conditions (acute, chronic, infectious, 
autoimmune), patient populations (pediatric, geriatric, 
prenatal), specialized procedures, diagnostic interpretation 
(radiology, lab work, pathology), specific subspecialties 
(rheumatology, immunology, infectious diseases).

_Typical configurations_: A primary care physician working 
in a rural clinic with elderly patients faces different 
challenges from a specialist working in tertiary care. Even 
within specialties, working with specific patient populations 
requires different configurations.

_Critical caveat_: Medical configurations require especially 
rigorous quality assurance and explicit boundaries around what 
the composite agent can support.

h3. 8.5. Domain 5 — Technical Architecture and Engineering

_Sub-agent specializations might include_: Programming languages, 
architecture patterns, deployment platforms, security 
disciplines, performance engineering, testing approaches, 
specific application domains (fintech, medtech, e-commerce, 
infrastructure), compliance regimes.

_Typical configurations_: An engineer specializing in 
high-performance distributed systems for medical applications 
needs specific combinations: distributed systems, performance 
engineering, plus medical compliance, plus security 
requirements specific to healthcare.

_Bridge to existing tools_: Many engineering teams already 
informally combine specialist resources (Stack Overflow, 
language-specific documentation, specialist consultants). 
Composite agents formalize this.

h3. 8.6. Domain 6 — Academic Research and Cross-Disciplinary Work

_Sub-agent specializations might include_: Specific 
methodologies (quantitative, qualitative, mixed methods), 
research traditions, statistical approaches, computational 
methods, writing conventions for specific journals or fields, 
literature search across databases, ethical frameworks.

_Typical configurations_: A computational biologist working 
on epidemiology with humanities co-authors faces unique 
configuration needs combining biology, computer science, 
epidemiological methods, and humanities perspectives.

_Profession evolution_: Academic research increasingly bridges 
fields. Composite agents support this trend rather than 
fighting it.

h3. 8.7. Domain 7 — Therapeutic Practice and Mental Health

_Sub-agent specializations might include_: Therapeutic 
modalities (CBT, somatic experiencing, narrative therapy, 
gestalt), specific conditions (trauma, addiction, eating 
disorders, mood disorders), client populations (children, 
adolescents, elderly, couples, groups), supporting frameworks 
(neuroscience, attachment theory, family systems), cultural 
competencies, specific skills (crisis intervention, group 
facilitation).

_Typical configurations_: A therapist working with adolescents 
who have eating disorders in immigrant families requires 
specific combinations spanning therapeutic modalities, 
developmental psychology, eating disorder specifics, and 
cultural competency.

_Critical caveat_: Mental health practice requires especially 
careful attention to where AI support is appropriate (research, 
documentation, knowledge lookup) versus where it is not 
(clinical judgment, therapeutic relationship). Composite agents 
operate strictly in the support role.

h3. 8.8. Pattern Across Domains

What unites these domains:
* Practice is deeply specialized, but specialization combines 
  rather than replaces general profession competency
* Practitioners typically span 10-30 distinct specializations
* Each specialization is shared with other practitioners but 
  configurations are individually distinctive
* Existing professional development already follows this 
  pattern; composite agents formalize and enable it more 
  broadly

The pattern is general. We expect Composite Skills Agents to 
become standard infrastructure across most skilled professions 
within 5-10 years.

----



----

_Похожие документы:_
* [[255-2-the-twenty-one-teachers-pattern]] (сходство 0.17)
* [[254-1-why-the-binary-view-is-incomplete]] (сходство 0.14)
* [[218-7-application-domains]] (сходство 0.14)




----

_Смотрите также:_
* [[255-2-the-twenty-one-teachers-pattern]]
* [[218-7-application-domains]]
* [[254-1-why-the-binary-view-is-incomplete]]
* [[262-9-integration-with-okwf-infrastructure]]


h2. Упоминается в

* [[255-2-the-twenty-one-teachers-pattern|2. The Twenty-One Teachers Pattern]]
* [[218-7-application-domains|7. Application Domains]]
* [[README|Вакансии Anthropic — Анализ по кластерам]]
h2. Упоминается в

* [[README|Вакансии Anthropic — Анализ по кластерам]]


h2. Связанные документы

* [[259-6-coordination-and-disagreement-resolution|6. Coordination and Disagreement Resolution]] _17%_
* [[262-9-integration-with-okwf-infrastructure|9. Integration with OKWF Infrastructure]] _17%_
* [[263-10-risks-specific-to-composite-architectures|10. Risks Specific to Composite Architectures]] _17%_
h2. Связанные документы

* [[263-10-risks-specific-to-composite-architectures|10. Risks Specific to Composite Architectures]] _25%_
* [[254-1-why-the-binary-view-is-incomplete|1. Why the Binary View Is Incomplete]] _21%_
* [[256-3-what-makes-a-composite-skills-agent|3. What Makes a Composite Skills Agent]] _21%_
* [[258-5-configuration-how-principals-build-their-ensembl|5. Configuration: How Principals Build Their Ensembles]] _21%_
* [[259-6-coordination-and-disagreement-resolution|6. Coordination and Disagreement Resolution]] _21%_
* [[262-9-integration-with-okwf-infrastructure|9. Integration with OKWF Infrastructure]] _21%_
* [[264-11-open-questions|11. Open Questions]] _21%_
* [[143-6-four-deployment-domains|6. Four Deployment Domains]] _17%_
