{info:title=Источник}
Сгенерировано из: {{docs/obsidian/02-anthropic-vacancies/262-9-integration-with-okwf-infrastructure.md}}
Дата: 2026-04-29
{info}

----
title: "9. Integration with OKWF Infrastructure"
tags:
  * rag
  * architecture
  * roadmap
  * anthropic-vacancies
date: 2026-04-29
----

h1. 9. Integration with OKWF Infrastructure

{quote}[!TIP]{quote}
{quote}Документ содержит практические рекомендации и лучшие практики.{quote}




{quote}Composite Skills Agents fit naturally into the OKWF infrastructure{quote}

----


h2. Содержание

* [9. Integration with OKWF Infrastructure|#9-integration-with-okwf-infrastructure]
  * [9.1. Connection to Pattern Library|#91-connection-to-pattern-library]
  * [9.2. Connection to Guild Structure|#92-connection-to-guild-structure]
  * [9.3. Connection to Double-Triangle Architecture|#93-connection-to-double-triangle-architecture]
  * [9.4. Connection to Representative Agents|#94-connection-to-representative-agents]
  * [9.5. Refined OKWF Rollout Plan|#95-refined-okwf-rollout-plan]
  * [9.6. Practical Implication for Pilot Design|#96-practical-implication-for-pilot-design]

----






h2. 9. Integration with OKWF Infrastructure

Composite Skills Agents fit naturally into the OKWF infrastructure 
proposed in earlier papers, with some specific implications.

h3. 9.1. Connection to Pattern Library

The Nautilus pattern library architecture (public patterns, 
private instances, anonymization pipeline) provides foundational 
support for the sub-agent registry. Patterns become source 
material for sub-agents. Anonymized practitioner contributions 
flow into pattern library, which informs sub-agent updates.

The connection is not just analogical. The same infrastructure 
serves both:
* Pattern library: knowledge fragments accessible to humans 
  for review
* Sub-agent registry: knowledge fragments operationalized 
  into AI assistants

A given knowledge artifact can serve both functions.

h3. 9.2. Connection to Guild Structure

OKWF's guild structure (groups of practitioners by professional 
area) provides natural organization for sub-agent development. 
Each guild can:
* Identify priority sub-agents for their area
* Contribute expert curation
* Test sub-agents in actual practice
* Maintain quality standards
* Develop common configuration templates

Guilds become both consumers and producers of composite 
infrastructure.

h3. 9.3. Connection to Double-Triangle Architecture

In the Double-Triangle Architecture, each Node (human 
practitioner) has lower-triangle assistants supporting their 
work. Composite Skills Agents formalize what lower-triangle 
assistants typically contain: not one undifferentiated assistant 
but a coordinated configuration of narrow specialists.

The composite agent itself is the orchestrator of the lower 
triangle. The sub-agents in the configuration are the actual 
"lower triangle assistants" doing specialized work.

This refines the Double-Triangle model: the lower triangle is 
not a flat set of assistants but a coordinated ensemble.

h3. 9.4. Connection to Representative Agents

Composite Skills Agents and Representative Agents work together 
naturally:
* The composite agent supports the practitioner's work
* The representative agent supports the practitioner's external 
  position

A mature practitioner has both: composite for daily work, 
representative for opportunity navigation. They share underlying 
profile information about the practitioner but operate in 
different layers.

h3. 9.5. Refined OKWF Rollout Plan

Earlier papers proposed sequencing of OKWF deployment. With 
Composite Skills Agents recognized, the sequence refines to:

_Phase 0_ (Months 1-12): Foundation establishment, initial 
sub-agent set for one profession (perhaps SGB social law). Build 
20-30 narrow sub-agents plus coordinator. Pilot with 5-10 
practitioners.

_Phase 1_ (Year 2): Expand sub-agent set, scale practitioners 
to 100-500. Establish pattern library connection, anonymization 
pipeline. Begin contribution flow back into sub-agent updates.

_Phase 2_ (Years 2-3): Expand to second profession (perhaps 
educational support for disabled students, maintaining thematic 
connection). Cross-profession integration of methodology 
sub-agents.

_Phase 3_ (Years 3-5): Multiple professions, federated 
sub-agent registry, mature configuration management. Begin 
adding Representative Agent layer for principals who want it.

_Phase 4_ (Year 5+): Multi-language, multi-jurisdiction 
expansion. Open registry with multiple curating organizations.

This plan is more realistic than the earlier proposal because 
it matches how skilled practitioners actually develop and what 
they actually need.

h3. 9.6. Practical Implication for Pilot Design

For the SGB Advocate Colleague pilot specifically:

_Original plan_: Build one comprehensive Professional 
Colleague Agent for German social law.

_Refined plan_: Build a sub-agent registry covering 
20-30 narrow SGB specializations, plus a coordinator that 
practitioners configure individually.

Cost increases (€1.5M vs €430K for Year 1), but produces a 
genuinely useful infrastructure that scales to multiple 
adjacent legal domains and supports practitioners' actual 
diverse practices rather than forcing one-size-fits-all 
generalization.

This is a better proposal for foundation funders even at higher 
cost, because it demonstrates a more sophisticated understanding 
of how skilled practice works and produces infrastructure with 
broader applicability.

----



----

_Похожие документы:_
* [[260-7-economics-of-combinatorial-replication]] (сходство 0.21)
* [[266-13-closing]] (сходство 0.20)
* [[257-4-the-sub-agent-registry]] (сходство 0.18)




----

_Смотрите также:_
* [[260-7-economics-of-combinatorial-replication]]
* [[266-13-closing]]
* [[257-4-the-sub-agent-registry]]
* [[316-8-implications-for-nautilus-and-okwf]]


h2. Упоминается в

* [[README|Вакансии Anthropic — Анализ по кластерам]]


h2. Связанные документы

* [[208-professional-colleague-agents-md|PROFESSIONAL COLLEAGUE AGENTS.md]] _33%_
* [[254-1-why-the-binary-view-is-incomplete|1. Why the Binary View Is Incomplete]] _33%_
* [[257-4-the-sub-agent-registry|4. The Sub-Agent Registry]] _33%_
* [[134-the-double-triangle-architecture-md|THE DOUBLE-TRIANGLE ARCHITECTURE.md]] _30%_
* [[174-5-architectural-specification|5. Architectural Specification]] _29%_
* [[304-ingit-as-cowork-native-workspace-substrate-md|INGIT AS COWORK-NATIVE WORKSPACE SUBSTRATE.md]] _29%_
* [[316-8-implications-for-nautilus-and-okwf|8. Implications for Nautilus and OKWF]] _29%_
* [[148-appendix-a-glossary|Appendix A: Glossary]] _25%_
