{info:title=Источник}
Сгенерировано из: {{docs/obsidian/02-anthropic-vacancies/263-10-risks-specific-to-composite-architectures.md}}
Дата: 2026-04-29
{info}

----
title: "10. Risks Specific to Composite Architectures"
tags:
  * anthropic-vacancies
date: 2026-04-29
----

h1. 10. Risks Specific to Composite Architectures


{quote}_Абстракт_ (авто){quote}
>
{quote}🎯 _Проблема:_ Practitioners working on similar problems develop incompatible approaches because they used different sub-agent configurations.{quote}
{quote}🔧 _Подход:_ Practitioners working on similar problems develop incompatible approaches because they used different sub-agent configurations.{quote}
{quote}✅ _Результат:_ Mitigations: - Open standards make sub-agents portable and replaceable - Multiple sub-agents covering same specialization (compete on quality, not lock-in) - Notification when sub-{quote}
{quote}🏷️ _Ключевые слова:_ {{agents}}, {{configuration}}, {{agent}}, {{composite}}, {{configurations}}, {{coordinator}}, {{specific}}, {{quality}}{quote}
>


{quote}[!TIP]{quote}
{quote}Документ содержит практические рекомендации и лучшие практики.{quote}




{quote}Composite Skills Agents inherit some risks from Professional{quote}

----


h2. Содержание

* [10. Risks Specific to Composite Architectures|#10-risks-specific-to-composite-architectures]
  * [10.1. Risk: Configuration Paralysis|#101-risk-configuration-paralysis]
  * [10.2. Risk: Configuration Echo Chamber|#102-risk-configuration-echo-chamber]
  * [10.3. Risk: Sub-Agent Dependency|#103-risk-sub-agent-dependency]
  * [10.4. Risk: Coordinator Bias|#104-risk-coordinator-bias]
  * [10.5. Risk: Quality Variation Across Sub-Agents|#105-risk-quality-variation-across-sub-agents]
  * [10.6. Risk: Profession Fragmentation|#106-risk-profession-fragmentation]
  * [10.7. Risk: Hidden Dependencies Among Sub-Agents|#107-risk-hidden-dependencies-among-sub-agents]
  * [10.8. Risk: Configuration as Competitive Advantage Hoarding|#108-risk-configuration-as-competitive-advantage-hoarding]

----






h2. 10. Risks Specific to Composite Architectures

Composite Skills Agents inherit some risks from Professional 
Colleague Agents but also introduce new risks specific to 
ensemble configurations.

h3. 10.1. Risk: Configuration Paralysis

_Scenario_: Faced with hundreds of available sub-agents, the 
principal cannot decide which to include. Configuration becomes 
overwhelming task. Principal gives up and uses generic 
Professional Colleague Agent instead, missing the value of 
composite.

_Mitigations_:
* Strong starting templates for common professional patterns
* AI-assisted recommendation as default (with override)
* Limit on initial configuration size (start with 5-10, grow 
  over time)
* Mentor connection for complex configuration decisions

h3. 10.2. Risk: Configuration Echo Chamber

_Scenario_: Principal selects sub-agents that confirm their 
existing approach, missing specializations that would challenge 
or expand their practice. Composite becomes a sophisticated 
form of confirmation bias.

_Mitigations_:
* Recommendation system explicitly suggests "growth-edge" 
  sub-agents outside principal's current configuration
* Regular configuration reviews with prompts to consider 
  unfamiliar specializations
* Mentor input that intentionally surfaces alternative 
  perspectives
* Public visibility of how others in the same profession 
  configure differently

h3. 10.3. Risk: Sub-Agent Dependency

_Scenario_: Principal becomes dependent on a specific sub-agent 
that is later deprecated or significantly changed. Their practice 
disrupts when configuration needs to change.

_Mitigations_:
* Open standards make sub-agents portable and replaceable
* Multiple sub-agents covering same specialization (compete on 
  quality, not lock-in)
* Notification when sub-agent will be deprecated, with 
  migration paths
* Configuration export so principal can move between 
  coordinator providers

h3. 10.4. Risk: Coordinator Bias

_Scenario_: The coordinator (general infrastructure managing 
configurations) develops biases in routing or synthesis that 
systematically favor some sub-agents over others. Practice 
patterns shift in ways principals didn't choose.

_Mitigations_:
* Open coordinator architecture, with multiple coordinator 
  options
* Transparent routing logic (principal can see why sub-agent 
  was selected)
* Auditable behavior over time
* Coordinator evaluation as part of platform governance

h3. 10.5. Risk: Quality Variation Across Sub-Agents

_Scenario_: Sub-agent registry includes high-quality and 
low-quality sub-agents. Principals using lower-quality sub-agents 
in their configurations get poorer support without realizing it.

_Mitigations_:
* Visible quality indicators on sub-agents
* Curation standards for inclusion in main registry
* User feedback loops affecting visibility
* Federated curation allowing principals to choose which 
  curators they trust

h3. 10.6. Risk: Profession Fragmentation

_Scenario_: As composite configurations diversify, professional 
practice fragments. Practitioners working on similar problems 
develop incompatible approaches because they used different 
sub-agent configurations. Professional coherence weakens.

_Mitigations_:
* Sub-agents share common foundational knowledge (so 
  configurations diverge from a common base)
* Guild structure maintains profession-level community across 
  diverse configurations
* Cross-configuration patterns in shared pattern library
* Recognition that some fragmentation is healthy diversification 
  versus unhealthy disconnection

h3. 10.7. Risk: Hidden Dependencies Among Sub-Agents

_Scenario_: A configuration appears to work well, but its 
output depends on subtle interactions between specific sub-agents. 
When one sub-agent updates, the configuration's output changes 
in ways neither principal nor coordinator anticipated.

_Mitigations_:
* Version pinning (configurations specify exact sub-agent 
  versions, opt into updates)
* Compatibility testing when sub-agents update
* Notification of significant behavioral changes in 
  sub-agents
* Configuration testing against past examples to detect drift

h3. 10.8. Risk: Configuration as Competitive Advantage Hoarding

_Scenario_: Principals discover that specific configurations 
are particularly effective. They keep these configurations 
secret as competitive advantage. Configuration knowledge becomes 
hoarded rather than shared, limiting benefit to broader 
practice.

_Mitigations_:
* Default openness about configurations (shared by default, 
  opt-in to keep private)
* Anonymized configuration patterns published in pattern 
  library
* Recognition for sharing effective configurations
* Cooperative ownership models that align individual benefit 
  with collective improvement

----



----

_Похожие документы:_
* [[262-9-integration-with-okwf-infrastructure]] (сходство 0.15)
* [[256-3-what-makes-a-composite-skills-agent]] (сходство 0.15)
* [[264-11-open-questions]] (сходство 0.15)




----

_Смотрите также:_
* [[262-9-integration-with-okwf-infrastructure]]
* [[264-11-open-questions]]
* [[257-4-the-sub-agent-registry]]
* [[256-3-what-makes-a-composite-skills-agent]]


h2. Упоминается в

* [[179-10-open-questions|10. Open Questions]]
* [[264-11-open-questions|11. Open Questions]]
* [[265-12-call-for-collaboration|12. Call for Collaboration]]
* [[256-3-what-makes-a-composite-skills-agent|3. What Makes a Composite Skills Agent]]
* [[257-4-the-sub-agent-registry|4. The Sub-Agent Registry]]
* [[258-5-configuration-how-principals-build-their-ensembl|5. Configuration: How Principals Build Their Ensembles]]
* [[259-6-coordination-and-disagreement-resolution|6. Coordination and Disagreement Resolution]]
* [[217-6-risks-specific-to-this-category|6. Risks Specific to this Category]]
* [[260-7-economics-of-combinatorial-replication|7. Economics of Combinatorial Replication]]
* [[162-8-risk-analysis|8. Risk Analysis]]
* [[177-8-risks-and-mitigations|8. Risks and Mitigations]]
* [[261-8-seven-domains-of-application|8. Seven Domains of Application]]
* [[README|Вакансии Anthropic — Анализ по кластерам]]
h2. Упоминается в

* [[README|Вакансии Anthropic — Анализ по кластерам]]


h2. Связанные документы

* [[256-3-what-makes-a-composite-skills-agent|3. What Makes a Composite Skills Agent]] _42%_
* [[259-6-coordination-and-disagreement-resolution|6. Coordination and Disagreement Resolution]] _37%_
* [[177-8-risks-and-mitigations|8. Risks and Mitigations]] _33%_
* [[258-5-configuration-how-principals-build-their-ensembl|5. Configuration: How Principals Build Their Ensembles]] _33%_
* [[264-11-open-questions|11. Open Questions]] _29%_
* [[179-10-open-questions|10. Open Questions]] _21%_
* [[217-6-risks-specific-to-this-category|6. Risks Specific to this Category]] _21%_
* [[151-open-knowledge-work-foundation-md|OPEN KNOWLEDGE WORK FOUNDATION.md]] _17%_
h2. Связанные документы

* [[177-8-risks-and-mitigations|8. Risks and Mitigations]] _42%_
* [[256-3-what-makes-a-composite-skills-agent|3. What Makes a Composite Skills Agent]] _37%_
* [[264-11-open-questions|11. Open Questions]] _37%_
* [[151-open-knowledge-work-foundation-md|OPEN KNOWLEDGE WORK FOUNDATION.md]] _29%_
* [[179-10-open-questions|10. Open Questions]] _29%_
* [[252-abstract|Abstract]] _29%_
* [[258-5-configuration-how-principals-build-their-ensembl|5. Configuration: How Principals Build Their Ensembles]] _29%_
* [[259-6-coordination-and-disagreement-resolution|6. Coordination and Disagreement Resolution]] _29%_
