{info:title=Источник}
Сгенерировано из: {{docs/obsidian/02-anthropic-vacancies/264-11-open-questions.md}}
Дата: 2026-04-29
{info}

----
title: "11. Open Questions"
tags:
  * rag
  * anthropic
  * anthropic-vacancies
date: 2026-04-29
----

h1. 11. Open Questions


h2. Содержание

* [Contents|#contents]
* [11. Open Questions|#11-open-questions]
  * [11.1. Granularity Questions|#111-granularity-questions]
  * [11.2. Configuration Stability|#112-configuration-stability]
  * [11.3. Cross-Professional Configurations|#113-cross-professional-configurations]
  * [11.4. Configuration Evolution at Scale|#114-configuration-evolution-at-scale]
  * [11.5. Sub-Agent Quality Across Cultures|#115-sub-agent-quality-across-cultures]
  * [11.6. Liability for Composite Outputs|#116-liability-for-composite-outputs]
  * [11.7. The "Emergence" Question|#117-the-emergence-question]
  * [11.8. Transition from Composite to Representative|#118-transition-from-composite-to-representative]
* [Упоминается в|#упоминается-в]
* [Связанные документы|#связанные-документы]

----



h2. Contents

* [11. Open Questions|#11-open-questions]
  * [11.1. Granularity Questions|#111-granularity-questions]
  * [11.2. Configuration Stability|#112-configuration-stability]
  * [11.3. Cross-Professional Configurations|#113-cross-professional-configurations]
  * [11.4. Configuration Evolution at Scale|#114-configuration-evolution-at-scale]
  * [11.5. Sub-Agent Quality Across Cultures|#115-sub-agent-quality-across-cultures]
  * [11.6. Liability for Composite Outputs|#116-liability-for-composite-outputs]
  * [11.7. The "Emergence" Question|#117-the-emergence-question]
  * [11.8. Transition from Composite to Representative|#118-transition-from-composite-to-representative]


{quote}[!TIP]{quote}
{quote}Документ содержит практические рекомендации и лучшие практики.{quote}




{quote}Many questions about Composite Skills Agents remain open.{quote}

----





h2. 11. Open Questions

Many questions about Composite Skills Agents remain open.

h3. 11.1. Granularity Questions

How narrow should sub-agents be? Too narrow and configurations 
become unmanageable; too broad and the composite pattern 
collapses back to Professional Colleague Agent.

What's the right granularity for different professions? Likely 
varies — music might support finer granularity than law. 
Empirical question requiring deployment.

h3. 11.2. Configuration Stability

How often should principals revise configurations? Too often 
and they spend more time configuring than working; too rarely 
and configurations drift from current practice.

What signals suggest configuration revision is needed? Likely 
some combination of: significant change in principal's work, 
new sub-agents available, observed gaps in current configuration, 
explicit annual review.

h3. 11.3. Cross-Professional Configurations

When practitioners genuinely span professions (lawyer who is 
also social worker, doctor who is also researcher), can their 
configuration span sub-agents from multiple professions? How 
does the coordinator handle this?

This case is increasingly common as work becomes more 
interdisciplinary.

h3. 11.4. Configuration Evolution at Scale

If 10,000 practitioners use composite agents, what happens 
across the population? Do configurations cluster around 
patterns? Does this clustering match natural sub-specialties 
or create artificial groupings?

Empirical study would inform whether the architecture supports 
or constrains professional evolution.

h3. 11.5. Sub-Agent Quality Across Cultures

Sub-agents developed primarily in one cultural or linguistic 
context may not serve well in others. How does the registry 
handle cultural variation? Multiple parallel sub-agents for 
different contexts? Configurable cultural overlays?

h3. 11.6. Liability for Composite Outputs

When a composite agent's output (drawing on multiple sub-agents) 
contains errors, who bears responsibility? The principal who 
used it? The coordinator? Each sub-agent that contributed? 
The platform?

Legal frameworks for traditional Professional Colleague Agents 
are nascent; composite versions add complexity.

h3. 11.7. The "Emergence" Question

When many sub-agents combine in a configuration, do useful 
properties emerge that weren't present in any individual 
sub-agent? Or do composite outputs simply average their 
contributions?

Theoretically interesting question with practical implications 
for whether composite is genuinely more than the sum of parts.

h3. 11.8. Transition from Composite to Representative

As principals develop sophisticated composite configurations, 
when (if ever) does it make sense to graduate to a Representative 
Agent (Type 4) with truly individual specialization? Or do 
composites serve indefinitely?

The pattern from human mastery suggests configurations evolve 
indefinitely; "graduation" may not be the right metaphor.

----



----

_Похожие документы:_
* [[265-12-call-for-collaboration]] (сходство 0.18)
* [[221-10-open-questions]] (сходство 0.18)
* [[256-3-what-makes-a-composite-skills-agent]] (сходство 0.18)




----

_Смотрите также:_
* [[265-12-call-for-collaboration]]
* [[256-3-what-makes-a-composite-skills-agent]]
* [[262-9-integration-with-okwf-infrastructure]]
* [[221-10-open-questions]]


h2. Упоминается в

* [[README|Вакансии Anthropic — Анализ по кластерам]]


h2. Связанные документы

* [[263-10-risks-specific-to-composite-architectures|10. Risks Specific to Composite Architectures]] _37%_
* [[265-12-call-for-collaboration|12. Call for Collaboration]] _33%_
* [[151-open-knowledge-work-foundation-md|OPEN KNOWLEDGE WORK FOUNDATION.md]] _29%_
* [[179-10-open-questions|10. Open Questions]] _29%_
* [[221-10-open-questions|10. Open Questions]] _29%_
* [[249-composite-skills-agent-md|COMPOSITE SKILLS AGENT.md]] _29%_
* [[256-3-what-makes-a-composite-skills-agent|3. What Makes a Composite Skills Agent]] _29%_
* [[258-5-configuration-how-principals-build-their-ensembl|5. Configuration: How Principals Build Their Ensembles]] _29%_
