{info:title=Источник}
Сгенерировано из: {{docs/obsidian/02-anthropic-vacancies/265-12-call-for-collaboration.md}}
Дата: 2026-04-29
{info}

----
title: "12. Call for Collaboration"
tags:
  * rag
  * anthropic
  * anthropic-vacancies
date: 2026-04-29
----

h1. 12. Call for Collaboration


h2. Contents

* [12. Call for Collaboration|#12-call-for-collaboration]
  * [12.1. For Practitioners|#121-for-practitioners]
  * [12.2. For Curators and Domain Experts|#122-for-curators-and-domain-experts]
  * [12.3. For Software Engineers and Architects|#123-for-software-engineers-and-architects]
  * [12.4. For Researchers|#124-for-researchers]
  * [12.5. For Foundation Funders|#125-for-foundation-funders]
  * [12.6. For Policymakers|#126-for-policymakers]



{quote}This paper opens questions that require multi-stakeholder{quote}

----





h2. 12. Call for Collaboration

This paper opens questions that require multi-stakeholder 
engagement.

h3. 12.1. For Practitioners

Tell us how your practice combines specializations. What 
configuration of sub-agents would actually serve your work? 
What would make composite agents valuable versus merely complex?

Pilot participation invited, particularly for the SGB Advocate 
Colleague pilot.

h3. 12.2. For Curators and Domain Experts

Sub-agent registry development needs curated knowledge across 
many narrow specializations. Domain experts willing to help 
develop sub-agents in their specialties — particularly 
compensated through foundation funding — would substantially 
accelerate deployment.

h3. 12.3. For Software Engineers and Architects

Coordinator infrastructure is substantial engineering work. 
Open-source contributions to reference implementations welcome. 
Particular needs:
* Sub-agent registry standards and protocols
* Configuration management interfaces
* Disagreement detection and presentation systems
* Audit and observability tools

h3. 12.4. For Researchers

Empirical studies of composite configuration patterns would 
illuminate questions raised in Section 11. Particular value in:
* Configuration clustering analysis
* Effectiveness comparison: composite vs. monolithic agents
* Long-term effects on professional development
* Cross-cultural deployment outcomes

h3. 12.5. For Foundation Funders

Composite Skills Agents represent higher-leverage infrastructure 
investment than monolithic Professional Colleague Agents:
* More flexible support across diverse practitioner needs
* More scalable across adjacent professions
* More aligned with how mastery actually develops
* More resilient to changes in any single component

Funding sub-agent development is investing in foundational 
infrastructure that supports many configurations across many 
practitioners.

h3. 12.6. For Policymakers

Regulatory frameworks for AI in professional practice will 
need to address composite architectures specifically. Questions 
about liability, professional responsibility, and quality 
standards apply differently when many specialized sub-agents 
contribute to outputs.

Engagement during regulatory development helps ensure frameworks 
match actual technology architecture.

----



----

_Похожие документы:_
* [[222-11-call-for-collaboration]] (сходство 0.26)
* [[264-11-open-questions]] (сходство 0.18)
* [[262-9-integration-with-okwf-infrastructure]] (сходство 0.17)




----

_Смотрите также:_
* [[222-11-call-for-collaboration]]
* [[266-13-closing]]
* [[264-11-open-questions]]
* [[262-9-integration-with-okwf-infrastructure]]


h2. Упоминается в

* [[README|Вакансии Anthropic — Анализ по кластерам]]


h2. Связанные документы

* [[222-11-call-for-collaboration|11. Call for Collaboration]] _33%_
* [[264-11-open-questions|11. Open Questions]] _33%_
* [[151-open-knowledge-work-foundation-md|OPEN KNOWLEDGE WORK FOUNDATION.md]] _29%_
* [[273-infrastructure-for-ai-collaborative-intellectual-w|INFRASTRUCTURE FOR AI-COLLABORATIVE INTELLECTUAL WORK.md]] _29%_
* [[221-10-open-questions|10. Open Questions]] _25%_
* [[263-10-risks-specific-to-composite-architectures|10. Risks Specific to Composite Architectures]] _25%_
* [[208-professional-colleague-agents-md|PROFESSIONAL COLLEAGUE AGENTS.md]] _21%_
* [[216-5-the-economics-of-profession-wide-replication|5. The Economics of Profession-Wide Replication]] _21%_
