{info:title=Источник}
Сгенерировано из: {{docs/obsidian/02-anthropic-vacancies/266-13-closing.md}}
Дата: 2026-04-29
{info}

----
title: "13. Closing"
tags:
  * rag
  * anthropic-vacancies
date: 2026-04-29
----

h1. 13. Closing


{quote}_Абстракт_ (авто){quote}
>
{quote}🎯 _Проблема:_ Building uniquely customized agents serves deep representational needs but cannot scale.{quote}
{quote}✅ _Результат:_ For the Open Knowledge Work Foundation specifically, composite infrastructure provides: - More flexible support for diverse practitioner needs - Stronger alignment with mission of {quote}
{quote}🏷️ _Ключевые слова:_ {{infrastructure}}, {{anthropic}}, {{vacancies}}, {{closing}}, {{skilled}}, {{composite}}, {{agents}}, {{practice}}{quote}
>



{quote}Mastery in skilled work has always been composite. The yoga{quote}

----





h2. 13. Closing

Mastery in skilled work has always been composite. The yoga 
master who studied with twenty teachers did not invent his 
practice from nothing; he combined what he learned from 
specialists. The musician, the lawyer, the physician, the 
architect, the therapist — all develop their distinctive 
practice by combining individually general skills into 
individually distinctive configurations.

What is new is the possibility of AI infrastructure that mirrors 
this structure. Until now, AI support for skilled work has been 
either too generic (one assistant for everyone) or too custom 
(unique development per principal). Neither matches how 
practitioners actually develop and operate.

Composite Skills Agents fill this gap. They make the 
twenty-teacher pattern accessible at scale: any practitioner 
can configure their own ensemble of specialist sub-agents, 
creating support that matches their actual practice rather 
than forcing them into pre-defined categories.

This recognition changes the practical strategy for AI 
deployment in professions. Building monolithic profession-wide 
agents serves narrow purposes well but cannot serve the more 
common case of practitioners with distinctive specialized 
configurations. Building uniquely customized agents serves 
deep representational needs but cannot scale.

Building composite infrastructure — registry of narrow 
sub-agents plus configurable coordinators — serves the broad 
middle where most skilled practice actually happens.

For the Open Knowledge Work Foundation specifically, composite 
infrastructure provides:
* More flexible support for diverse practitioner needs
* Stronger alignment with mission of empowering distinctive 
  practitioners
* Better economic structure (combinatorial leverage of 
  fixed investment)
* More natural connection to existing pattern library 
  architecture
* Clearer migration path from initial pilot to mature 
  ecosystem

This is the architecture skilled work has needed.

The question is whether we build it carefully — with open 
standards, foundation governance, quality curation, and 
practitioner ownership — or whether we let it emerge through 
commercial dynamics that favor concentration over distribution.

The choice, again, is institutional rather than technological.

We propose the careful path. We invite collaboration in 
walking it.

----



----

_Похожие документы:_
* [[223-12-closing]] (сходство 0.21)
* [[252-abstract]] (сходство 0.20)
* [[262-9-integration-with-okwf-infrastructure]] (сходство 0.20)




----

_Смотрите также:_
* [[252-abstract]]
* [[223-12-closing]]
* [[254-1-why-the-binary-view-is-incomplete]]
* [[262-9-integration-with-okwf-infrastructure]]


h2. Упоминается в

* [[254-1-why-the-binary-view-is-incomplete|1. Why the Binary View Is Incomplete]]
* [[265-12-call-for-collaboration|12. Call for Collaboration]]
* [[181-12-closing|12. Closing]]
* [[223-12-closing|12. Closing]]
* [[255-2-the-twenty-one-teachers-pattern|2. The Twenty-One Teachers Pattern]]
* [[257-4-the-sub-agent-registry|4. The Sub-Agent Registry]]
* [[262-9-integration-with-okwf-infrastructure|9. Integration with OKWF Infrastructure]]
* [[168-abstract|Abstract]]
* [[252-abstract|Abstract]]
* [[285-closing|Closing]]
* [[281-the-recursive-insight|The Recursive Insight]]
* [[278-why-this-hasn-t-been-built|Why This Hasn't Been Built]]
* [[README|Вакансии Anthropic — Анализ по кластерам]]
h2. Упоминается в

* [[README|Вакансии Anthropic — Анализ по кластерам]]


h2. Связанные документы

* [[252-abstract|Abstract]] _25%_
* [[254-1-why-the-binary-view-is-incomplete|1. Why the Binary View Is Incomplete]] _25%_
* [[255-2-the-twenty-one-teachers-pattern|2. The Twenty-One Teachers Pattern]] _25%_
* [[257-4-the-sub-agent-registry|4. The Sub-Agent Registry]] _21%_
* [[168-abstract|Abstract]] _17%_
* [[262-9-integration-with-okwf-infrastructure|9. Integration with OKWF Infrastructure]] _17%_
* [[278-why-this-hasn-t-been-built|Why This Hasn't Been Built]] _17%_
* [[285-closing|Closing]] _17%_
h2. Связанные документы

* [[252-abstract|Abstract]] _29%_
* [[257-4-the-sub-agent-registry|4. The Sub-Agent Registry]] _29%_
* [[278-why-this-hasn-t-been-built|Why This Hasn't Been Built]] _29%_
* [[285-closing|Closing]] _29%_
* [[168-abstract|Abstract]] _25%_
* [[255-2-the-twenty-one-teachers-pattern|2. The Twenty-One Teachers Pattern]] _25%_
* [[262-9-integration-with-okwf-infrastructure|9. Integration with OKWF Infrastructure]] _25%_
* [[267-acknowledgments|Acknowledgments]] _25%_
