{info:title=Источник}
Сгенерировано из: {{docs/obsidian/02-anthropic-vacancies/268-references.md}}
Дата: 2026-04-29
{info}

----
title: "References"
tags:
  * rag
  * architecture
  * collaboration
  * anthropic-vacancies
date: 2026-04-29
----

h1. References


h2. Contents

* [References|#references]
  * [Foundational Sources for Composite Architecture|#foundational-sources-for-composite-architecture]
  * [Pattern of Composite Mastery|#pattern-of-composite-mastery]
  * [Multi-Agent Coordination|#multi-agent-coordination]
  * [Practical Examples|#practical-examples]
  * [Companion Documents in This Series|#companion-documents-in-this-series]



{quote}- Anderson, J. R. (1983). _The Architecture of Cognition_.{quote}

----





h2. References

h3. Foundational Sources for Composite Architecture

* Anderson, J. R. (1983). _The Architecture of Cognition_. 
  Harvard University Press. (On modular cognitive architecture.)
* Minsky, M. (1986). _The Society of Mind_. Simon & Schuster. 
  (On cognition as ensemble of specialized agents.)
* Csikszentmihalyi, M. (1997). *Creativity: Flow and the 
  Psychology of Discovery and Invention*. Harper. (On how 
  expertise develops through specialization combined with 
  synthesis.)

h3. Pattern of Composite Mastery

* Sennett, R. (2008). _The Craftsman_. Yale University Press. 
  (On how skilled practice combines learned specializations.)
* Dreyfus, H. L., & Dreyfus, S. E. (1986). *Mind Over Machine: 
  The Power of Human Intuition and Expertise in the Era of the 
  Computer*. Free Press. (On stages of skill acquisition.)

h3. Multi-Agent Coordination

* Wooldridge, M. (2009). _An Introduction to MultiAgent Systems_. 
  Wiley. (Foundational text.)
* Gilbert, N., & Troitzsch, K. G. (2005). *Simulation for the 
  Social Scientist*. Open University Press. (On modeling 
  ensembles.)

h3. Practical Examples

* Stanier, J. (2020). *Become an Effective Software Engineering 
  Manager*. Pragmatic Bookshelf. (On how engineers combine 
  specialized knowledge.)
* Susskind, R., & Susskind, D. (2015). *The Future of the 
  Professions*. Oxford University Press. (On how professions 
  are evolving in the AI era.)

h3. Companion Documents in This Series

* svend4 (2026). _Nautilus Portal Protocol v1.1_.
* svend4 (2026). _Review Methodology v1.0_.
* svend4 (2026). _Double-Triangle Architecture v1.0_.
* svend4 (2026). *Open Knowledge Work Foundation Concept 
  Document v1.0*.
* svend4 (2026). _Representative Agent Layer v1.0_.
* svend4 (2026). _Professional Colleague Agents v1.0_.

----



----

_Похожие документы:_
* [[251-ai-support-through-configurable-specialist-ensembl]] (сходство 0.20)
* [[274-the-missing-middle-layer-between-chat-and-code]] (сходство 0.18)
* [[225-references]] (сходство 0.18)




----

_Смотрите также:_
* [[251-ai-support-through-configurable-specialist-ensembl]]
* [[274-the-missing-middle-layer-between-chat-and-code]]
* [[209-a-typology-of-ai-agents-on-the-principal-side-and-]]
* [[184-appendix-a-connection-to-companion-papers]]


h2. Упоминается в

* [[README|Вакансии Anthropic — Анализ по кластерам]]


h2. Связанные документы

* [[184-appendix-a-connection-to-companion-papers|Appendix A: Connection to Companion Papers]] _37%_
* [[209-a-typology-of-ai-agents-on-the-principal-side-and-|A Typology of AI Agents on the Principal Side and the Case for Profession-Specific Co-Workers]] _37%_
* [[306-with-anthropic-s-cowork-platform|with Anthropic's Cowork Platform]] _37%_
* [[355-существующие-документы-dhlab-твой-context|Существующие документы DHLab (твой context)]] _37%_
* [[146-acknowledgments|Acknowledgments]] _33%_
* [[274-the-missing-middle-layer-between-chat-and-code|The Missing Middle Layer Between Chat and Code]] _33%_
* [[137-table-of-contents|Table of Contents]] _29%_
* [[167-ai-mediated-representation-for-underrepresented-ex|AI-Mediated Representation for Underrepresented Experts and Vulnerable Populations]] _29%_
