{info:title=Источник}
Сгенерировано из: {{docs/obsidian/02-anthropic-vacancies/282-what-industry-will-likely-build.md}}
Дата: 2026-04-29
{info}

----
title: "What Industry Will Likely Build"
tags:
  * architecture
  * anthropic
  * anthropic-vacancies
date: 2026-04-29
----

h1. What Industry Will Likely Build


{quote}_Абстракт_ (авто){quote}
>
{quote}🎯 _Проблема:_ What Industry Will Likely Build Independent of what the author does, the industry will move --- What Industry Will Likely Build Independent of what the author does, the industry wi{quote}
{quote}🏷️ _Ключевые слова:_ {{anthropic}}, {{vacancies}}, {{layer}}, {{build}}, {{industry}}, {{likely}}, {{infrastructure}}, {{notion}}{quote}
>



{quote}Independent of what the author does, the industry will move{quote}

----





h2. What Industry Will Likely Build

Independent of what the author does, the industry will move 
toward Layer B infrastructure within 1-3 years. The gap is 
too obvious to remain unfilled.

Probable directions:

_Anthropic Projects expansion._ Projects will likely add 
some threading, document versioning, and richer organization. 
Anthropic is positioned to do this well because they 
control the AI integration tightly. Expect incremental 
additions to Projects functionality through 2026-2027.

_[[03-component-catalog|GitHub]] for ideas._ GitHub may build something parallel 
to [[03-component-catalog|GitHub]] for code — an intellectual workspace product. 
They have the infrastructure, the user base, and the 
brand. Risk: code culture would persist.

_Notion AI deepening._ Notion may extend Notion AI from 
generation assistance to genuine collaboration. They have 
the structural capacity (databases, linking, comments). 
Risk: Notion's complexity creates barrier to entry.

_Specialized startup._ Some new company may build Layer B 
specifically. This is the most likely path to genuinely 
new infrastructure but the highest risk.

_Open source community project._ Researchers and 
intellectual workers may build their own. Hypothes.is for 
annotations exists; could be extended. Discourse plus AI 
plugins. Various combinations.

We should not wait for any specific outcome. We should use 
what exists and adapt as better infrastructure emerges.

----



----

_Похожие документы:_
* [[281-the-recursive-insight]] (сходство 0.13)
* [[277-what-s-missing-layer-b]] (сходство 0.13)
* [[279-existing-approximations]] (сходство 0.13)




----

_Смотрите также:_
* [[281-the-recursive-insight]]
* [[277-what-s-missing-layer-b]]
* [[307-abstract]]
* [[279-existing-approximations]]


h2. Упоминается в

* [[279-existing-approximations|Existing Approximations]]
* [[284-practical-recommendations-for-the-current-project|Practical Recommendations for the Current Project]]
* [[281-the-recursive-insight|The Recursive Insight]]
* [[280-the-specific-case-in-front-of-us|The Specific Case in Front of Us]]
* [[README|Вакансии Anthropic — Анализ по кластерам]]
* [[294-существующие-приближения|Существующие приближения]]
* [[297-что-промышленность-вероятно-построит|Что промышленность вероятно построит]]
h2. Упоминается в

* [[README|Вакансии Anthropic — Анализ по кластерам]]


h2. Связанные документы

* [[279-existing-approximations|Existing Approximations]] _29%_
* [[281-the-recursive-insight|The Recursive Insight]] _29%_
* [[276-the-two-layer-stack-as-it-exists|The Two-Layer Stack As It Exists]] _25%_
* [[280-the-specific-case-in-front-of-us|The Specific Case in Front of Us]] _25%_
* [[284-practical-recommendations-for-the-current-project|Practical Recommendations for the Current Project]] _25%_
* [[278-why-this-hasn-t-been-built|Why This Hasn't Been Built]] _21%_
* [[283-what-this-document-doesn-t-solve|What This Document Doesn't Solve]] _17%_
h2. Связанные документы

* [[279-existing-approximations|Existing Approximations]] _33%_
* [[281-the-recursive-insight|The Recursive Insight]] _29%_
* [[284-practical-recommendations-for-the-current-project|Practical Recommendations for the Current Project]] _25%_
* [[276-the-two-layer-stack-as-it-exists|The Two-Layer Stack As It Exists]] _21%_
* [[278-why-this-hasn-t-been-built|Why This Hasn't Been Built]] _21%_
* [[280-the-specific-case-in-front-of-us|The Specific Case in Front of Us]] _21%_
* [[153-executive-summary|Executive Summary]] _17%_
* [[164-10-appendices|10. Appendices]] _17%_
