{info:title=Источник}
Сгенерировано из: {{docs/obsidian/02-anthropic-vacancies/284-practical-recommendations-for-the-current-project.md}}
Дата: 2026-04-29
{info}

----
title: "Practical Recommendations for the Current Project"
tags:
  * architecture
  * anthropic
  * anthropic-vacancies
date: 2026-04-29
----

h1. Practical Recommendations for the Current Project


{quote}_Абстракт_ (авто){quote}
>
{quote}🎯 _Проблема:_ Practical Recommendations for the Current Project For the seven-document Nautilus / OKWF project specifically, --- Practical Recommendations for the Current Project For the seven-d{quote}
{quote}✅ _Результат:_ This provides threaded discussion infrastructure.{quote}
{quote}🏷️ _Ключевые слова:_ {{anthropic}}, {{project}}, {{vacancies}}, {{document}}, {{nautilus}}, {{documents}}, {{create}}, {{layer}}{quote}
>



{quote}For the seven-document Nautilus / OKWF project specifically,{quote}

----





h2. Practical Recommendations for the Current Project

For the seven-document Nautilus / OKWF project specifically, 
practical next steps:

_Step 1 — Commit documents to repository._ All seven 
documents should be saved to {{[[memnet|nautilus]]/docs/}} as Markdown 
files. This creates stable reference artifacts.

_Step 2 — Create README that links them._ A top-level 
README explains the relationships between documents, in what 
order to read them, what each addresses. This serves as 
poor-man's cross-reference index.

_Step 3 — Open [[03-component-catalog|GitHub]] Discussions._ Enable Discussions on 
the Nautilus repository. Create initial categories: 
Architecture, Implementation, Pilots, Theory, Community. 
This provides threaded discussion infrastructure.

_Step 4 — Create initial discussion threads._ For each 
document, create one Discussion thread inviting comments. 
This makes the documents discussable.

_Step 5 — Use Anthropic Project for ongoing work._ Create 
a Nautilus Project in Anthropic. Upload documents as Project 
Knowledge. Use this Project for AI-assisted development of 
new aspects without losing context.

_Step 6 — Cross-reference informally._ When citing one 
document from another, use clear markdown references with 
file paths. Accept that these may break with restructuring; 
the loss is acceptable.

_Step 7 — Track evolution in CHANGELOG._ Each document 
should have a changelog noting major revisions. This 
preserves history without requiring sophisticated versioning.

_Step 8 — Periodic snapshot for posterity._ When natural 
milestones reached, tag the repository state. This creates 
restorable points.

This is not Layer B. It is **best-available approximation 
using current tools**. It will work. It will have friction. 
The friction will be lower than no infrastructure at all.

----



----

_Похожие документы:_
* [[280-the-specific-case-in-front-of-us]] (сходство 0.16)
* [[277-what-s-missing-layer-b]] (сходство 0.15)
* [[279-existing-approximations]] (сходство 0.14)




----

_Смотрите также:_
* [[280-the-specific-case-in-front-of-us]]
* [[277-what-s-missing-layer-b]]
* [[285-closing]]
* [[279-existing-approximations]]


h2. Упоминается в

* [[309-1-the-cowork-discovery-and-why-it-changes-everythi|1. The Cowork Discovery and Why It Changes Everything]]
* [[164-10-appendices|10. Appendices]]
* [[218-7-application-domains|7. Application Domains]]
* [[315-7-practical-first-steps-this-month|7. Practical First Steps This Month]]
* [[288-appendix-position-in-series-visualization|Appendix: Position in Series Visualization]]
* [[285-closing|Closing]]
* [[279-existing-approximations|Existing Approximations]]
* [[281-the-recursive-insight|The Recursive Insight]]
* [[280-the-specific-case-in-front-of-us|The Specific Case in Front of Us]]
* [[276-the-two-layer-stack-as-it-exists|The Two-Layer Stack As It Exists]]
* [[282-what-industry-will-likely-build|What Industry Will Likely Build]]
* [[283-what-this-document-doesn-t-solve|What This Document Doesn't Solve]]
* [[277-what-s-missing-layer-b|What's Missing — Layer B]]
* [[README|Вакансии Anthropic — Анализ по кластерам]]
h2. Упоминается в

* [[README|Вакансии Anthropic — Анализ по кластерам]]


h2. Связанные документы

* [[280-the-specific-case-in-front-of-us|The Specific Case in Front of Us]] _42%_
* [[276-the-two-layer-stack-as-it-exists|The Two-Layer Stack As It Exists]] _37%_
* [[277-what-s-missing-layer-b|What's Missing — Layer B]] _37%_
* [[279-existing-approximations|Existing Approximations]] _29%_
* [[275-why-this-document-exists|Why This Document Exists]] _25%_
* [[282-what-industry-will-likely-build|What Industry Will Likely Build]] _25%_
* [[315-7-practical-first-steps-this-month|7. Practical First Steps This Month]] _25%_
* [[281-the-recursive-insight|The Recursive Insight]] _21%_
h2. Связанные документы

* [[276-the-two-layer-stack-as-it-exists|The Two-Layer Stack As It Exists]] _42%_
* [[277-what-s-missing-layer-b|What's Missing — Layer B]] _37%_
* [[280-the-specific-case-in-front-of-us|The Specific Case in Front of Us]] _37%_
* [[315-7-practical-first-steps-this-month|7. Practical First Steps This Month]] _33%_
* [[309-1-the-cowork-discovery-and-why-it-changes-everythi|1. The Cowork Discovery and Why It Changes Everything]] _29%_
* [[279-existing-approximations|Existing Approximations]] _25%_
* [[281-the-recursive-insight|The Recursive Insight]] _25%_
* [[282-what-industry-will-likely-build|What Industry Will Likely Build]] _25%_
