{info:title=Источник}
Сгенерировано из: {{docs/obsidian/02-anthropic-vacancies/286-acknowledgments.md}}
Дата: 2026-04-29
{info}

----
title: "Acknowledgments"
tags:
  * architecture
  * anthropic
  * anthropic-vacancies
date: 2026-04-29
----

h1. Acknowledgments


{quote}This document emerged from the author's observation, near{quote}

----





h2. Acknowledgments

This document emerged from the author's observation, near 
the end of an extended seven-document session, that the chat 
medium was insufficient for the kind of sustained 
intellectual project the documents represented. The 
observation crystallized a problem that had been implicit 
throughout the session but not articulated.

The position of this document in the series — designated 2.3 
rather than 8 — reflects the author's judgment that this 
inquiry document is structurally closer to early architectural 
work (Documents 1-2) than to applied work (Documents 3-7). 
It addresses infrastructure rather than application. The 
fractional numbering preserves the linear sequence of applied 
papers while inserting the infrastructure question where 
it logically belongs.

The author retained editorial authority. The framing, the 
recursive Nautilus possibility, and the practical 
recommendations all originated with the author. Claude 
contributed structure and reference work.

----



----

_Похожие документы:_
* [[274-the-missing-middle-layer-between-chat-and-code]] (сходство 0.20)
* [[275-why-this-document-exists]] (сходство 0.16)
* [[319-acknowledgments]] (сходство 0.16)




----

_Смотрите также:_
* [[274-the-missing-middle-layer-between-chat-and-code]]
* [[319-acknowledgments]]
* [[275-why-this-document-exists]]
* [[267-acknowledgments]]


h2. Упоминается в

* [[README|Вакансии Anthropic — Анализ по кластерам]]


h2. Связанные документы

* [[319-acknowledgments|Acknowledgments]] _53%_
* [[267-acknowledgments|Acknowledgments]] _48%_
* [[275-why-this-document-exists|Why This Document Exists]] _42%_
* [[287-references|References]] _42%_
* [[184-appendix-a-connection-to-companion-papers|Appendix A: Connection to Companion Papers]] _33%_
* [[209-a-typology-of-ai-agents-on-the-principal-side-and-|A Typology of AI Agents on the Principal Side and the Case for Profession-Specific Co-Workers]] _33%_
* [[251-ai-support-through-configurable-specialist-ensembl|AI Support Through Configurable Specialist Ensembles]] _33%_
* [[306-with-anthropic-s-cowork-platform|with Anthropic's Cowork Platform]] _33%_
