{info:title=Источник}
Сгенерировано из: {{docs/obsidian/02-anthropic-vacancies/287-references.md}}
Дата: 2026-04-29
{info}

----
title: "References"
tags:
  * anthropic
  * anthropic-vacancies
date: 2026-04-29
----

h1. References


h2. Contents

* [References|#references]
  * [Threading and Annotation|#threading-and-annotation]
  * [Knowledge Management|#knowledge-management]
  * [AI Collaboration Infrastructure|#ai-collaboration-infrastructure]
  * [Earlier Companion Documents in This Series|#earlier-companion-documents-in-this-series]



{quote}The references for this document are sparser than for the{quote}

----





h2. References

The references for this document are sparser than for the 
applied papers, because the document is exploratory rather 
than specifying. Key relevant work includes:

h3. Threading and Annotation

* Hypothesis project (https://web.hypothes.is/) — open 
  source web annotation
* Discourse forum software (https://www.discourse.org/) — 
  modern threaded forum
* Federated Wiki experiments by Ward Cunningham — alternative 
  models for collaborative writing

h3. Knowledge Management

* Sönke Ahrens (2017). _How to Take Smart Notes_. Cambridge 
  University Press. (Zettelkasten method, foundational for 
  modern personal knowledge management.)
* Andy Matuschak (ongoing). Working notes on tools for thought.

h3. AI Collaboration Infrastructure

* Anthropic Projects documentation (current)
* Microsoft Copilot Studio (different approach to similar 
  problem)
* Various multi-agent frameworks (LangChain, CrewAI, AutoGen)

h3. Earlier Companion Documents in This Series

Documents 1-7 of the Nautilus / OKWF series, as listed in the 
header of this document.

----



----

_Похожие документы:_
* [[302-ссылки]] (сходство 0.18)
* [[320-references]] (сходство 0.14)
* [[274-the-missing-middle-layer-between-chat-and-code]] (сходство 0.14)




----

_Смотрите также:_
* [[302-ссылки]]
* [[274-the-missing-middle-layer-between-chat-and-code]]
* [[306-with-anthropic-s-cowork-platform]]
* [[251-ai-support-through-configurable-specialist-ensembl]]


h2. Упоминается в

* [[README|Вакансии Anthropic — Анализ по кластерам]]


h2. Связанные документы

* [[286-acknowledgments|Acknowledgments]] _42%_
* [[319-acknowledgments|Acknowledgments]] _37%_
* [[184-appendix-a-connection-to-companion-papers|Appendix A: Connection to Companion Papers]] _33%_
* [[267-acknowledgments|Acknowledgments]] _33%_
* [[306-with-anthropic-s-cowork-platform|with Anthropic's Cowork Platform]] _33%_
* [[355-существующие-документы-dhlab-твой-context|Существующие документы DHLab (твой context)]] _33%_
* [[209-a-typology-of-ai-agents-on-the-principal-side-and-|A Typology of AI Agents on the Principal Side and the Case for Profession-Specific Co-Workers]] _29%_
* [[251-ai-support-through-configurable-specialist-ensembl|AI Support Through Configurable Specialist Ensembles]] _29%_
