{info:title=Источник}
Сгенерировано из: {{docs/obsidian/02-anthropic-vacancies/314-6-refined-ingit-scope-with-cowork-in-mind.md}}
Дата: 2026-04-29
{info}

----
title: "6. Refined InGit Scope with Cowork in Mind"
tags:
  * architecture
  * roadmap
  * anthropic-vacancies
date: 2026-04-29
----

h1. 6. Refined InGit Scope with Cowork in Mind

{quote}[!TIP]{quote}
{quote}Этот документ описывает MVP-подход. Начните с него для быстрого прототипа.{quote}




h2. Contents

* [6. Refined InGit Scope with Cowork in Mind|#6-refined-ingit-scope-with-cowork-in-mind]
  * [6.1. New Phase 1 (Months 1-3): Substrate MVP|#61-new-phase-1-months-1-3-substrate-mvp]
  * [6.2. New Phase 2 (Months 3-6): MCP Server|#62-new-phase-2-months-3-6-mcp-server]
  * [6.3. New Phase 3 (Months 6-12): Adoption and Refinement|#63-new-phase-3-months-6-12-adoption-and-refinement]
  * [6.4. Total Reduced Scope|#64-total-reduced-scope]



{quote}The original InGit roadmap (10-16 months to v1.0) reflected{quote}

----





h2. 6. Refined InGit Scope with Cowork in Mind

The original InGit roadmap (10-16 months to v1.0) reflected 
ambition for full standalone product. With Cowork as 
complement, scope can dramatically reduce.

h3. 6.1. New Phase 1 (Months 1-3): Substrate MVP

_Goal_: InGit becomes usable as Cowork substrate.

_Deliverables_:
* Folder structure conventions (already in repository)
* YAML metadata schemas for tasks, documents, wiki pages
* Pre-commit hooks for validation
* Basic encryption for sensitive folders (using age)
* Documentation of conventions
* Examples and templates

_Removed from original Phase 1_:
* Desktop GUI (deferred to "maybe never" given Cowork)
* Database layer (SQLite still useful but secondary)
* Web UI (Cowork is the UI)

_Effort_: Achievable in 3 months by individual developer 
working part-time.

h3. 6.2. New Phase 2 (Months 3-6): MCP Server

_Goal_: InGit operations available to Cowork via MCP.

_Deliverables_:
* {{ingit-mcp-server}} Python package
* 15-20 tools covering core operations
* Open source release
* Integration documentation
* Examples for Cowork Projects

_Effort_: 2-3 months for solo developer.

h3. 6.3. New Phase 3 (Months 6-12): Adoption and Refinement

_Goal_: Real-world usage drives improvements.

_Deliverables_:
* Migration tools (Notion, Obsidian, GitHub)
* Refinements based on user feedback
* Documentation expansion
* Community building

_Effort_: Depends on adoption velocity.

h3. 6.4. Total Reduced Scope

Original plan: 10-16 months to v1.0 with substantial features.
Revised plan: 12 months to mature substrate + MCP integration.

_Removed scope_:
* Desktop GUI: -3 months effort
* Web UI: -2 months effort
* Mobile app: -2 months effort (was implicit)
* Agent infrastructure: -3 months effort (Cowork provides)
* Independent connector ecosystem: -2 months effort

_Net effort reduction_: ~12 months work removed.
_Net timeline_: From 10-16 months to roughly 12 months, with 
much higher quality result.

This is the value of strategic positioning: less work for 
better outcomes.

----



----

_Похожие документы:_
* [[310-2-what-cowork-provides-that-ingit-doesn-t-need-to-]] (сходство 0.17)
* [[311-3-what-ingit-provides-that-cowork-lacks]] (сходство 0.14)
* [[313-5-four-integration-paths-in-order-of-accessibility]] (сходство 0.13)




----

_Смотрите также:_
* [[310-2-what-cowork-provides-that-ingit-doesn-t-need-to-]]
* [[313-5-four-integration-paths-in-order-of-accessibility]]
* [[308-table-of-contents]]
* [[311-3-what-ingit-provides-that-cowork-lacks]]


h2. Упоминается в

* [[README|Вакансии Anthropic — Анализ по кластерам]]


h2. Связанные документы

* [[313-5-four-integration-paths-in-order-of-accessibility|5. Four Integration Paths in Order of Accessibility]] _33%_
* [[308-table-of-contents|Table of Contents]] _29%_
* [[309-1-the-cowork-discovery-and-why-it-changes-everythi|1. The Cowork Discovery and Why It Changes Everything]] _29%_
* [[310-2-what-cowork-provides-that-ingit-doesn-t-need-to-|2. What Cowork Provides That InGit Doesn't Need to Build]] _29%_
* [[311-3-what-ingit-provides-that-cowork-lacks|3. What InGit Provides That Cowork Lacks]] _29%_
* [[312-4-the-symbiotic-architecture|4. The Symbiotic Architecture]] _25%_
* [[315-7-practical-first-steps-this-month|7. Practical First Steps This Month]] _25%_
* [[322-appendix-b-comparison-matrix|Appendix B: Comparison Matrix]] _25%_
