{info:title=Источник}
Сгенерировано из: {{docs/obsidian/02-anthropic-vacancies/315-7-practical-first-steps-this-month.md}}
Дата: 2026-04-29
{info}

----
title: "7. Practical First Steps This Month"
tags:
  * anthropic
  * anthropic-vacancies
date: 2026-04-29
----

h1. 7. Practical First Steps This Month




{quote}_Абстракт_ (авто){quote}
>
{quote}🎯 _Проблема:_ If problems emerge, they reveal what InGit needs to address.{quote}
{quote}🔧 _Подход:_ Action 3: Sketch initial MCP server design.{quote}
{quote}✅ _Результат:_ Specific Test Case: This Document Series The eight existing documents (1, 2, 2.3, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7) provide an ideal first test case.{quote}
{quote}🏷️ _Ключевые слова:_ {{ingit}}, {{cowork}}, {{action}}, {{month}}, {{anthropic}}, {{vacancies}}, {{practical}}, {{first}}{quote}
>



h2. Contents

* [7. Practical First Steps This Month|#7-practical-first-steps-this-month]
  * [7.1. This Week|#71-this-week]
  * [7.2. This Month|#72-this-month]
  * [7.3. Next Quarter|#73-next-quarter]
  * [7.4. Specific Test Case: This Document Series|#74-specific-test-case-this-document-series]



{quote}Concrete actions for the immediate term.{quote}

----





h2. 7. Practical First Steps This Month

Concrete actions for the immediate term.

h3. 7.1. This Week

_Action 1_: Create test Cowork Project pointing at simple 
folder with InGit structure. Use it for one of the eight 
existing series documents (e.g., move 
{{professional-colleague-agents.md}} into a Cowork-accessible 
InGit-style folder).

_Action 2_: Document what works and what doesn't. Specifically:
* Did Cowork follow InGit conventions?
* Where did it deviate or struggle?
* What custom instructions helped?
* What was confusing?

_Action 3_: Refine custom instructions based on observations. 
Iterate.

h3. 7.2. This Month

_Action 1_: Use the Cowork+InGit setup for **all eight 
documents** of current series. Migrate them into proper InGit 
project. Use Cowork to generate cross-references, identify 
inconsistencies, suggest refinements.

_Action 2_: Write up specific MCP tool requirements based on 
month of usage. What InGit operations would Cowork most benefit 
from accessing?

_Action 3_: Sketch initial MCP server design. Don't 
implement yet; design first.

h3. 7.3. Next Quarter

_Action 1_: Implement minimal MCP server (5-7 tools 
maximum). Test with own usage.

_Action 2_: Document everything for potential collaborators.

_Action 3_: Open source release with clear scope and 
expectations.

h3. 7.4. Specific Test Case: This Document Series

The eight existing documents (1, 2, 2.3, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7) 
provide an ideal first test case. They are:

* Substantial (~80,000 words combined)
* Cross-referenced (Document 7 refers to 6, 5, etc.)
* Versioned naturally (each has version number)
* Diverse (technical, conceptual, applied)

Migrating them into Cowork-managed InGit Project would 
exercise:
* Folder structure conventions
* Metadata management
* Cross-reference handling
* Wiki integration
* Git versioning

If this works smoothly, the substrate is validated. If 
problems emerge, they reveal what InGit needs to address.

This is "dogfooding" — using your own product on your own 
work. Most successful infrastructure projects start this way.

----



----

_Похожие документы:_
* [[313-5-four-integration-paths-in-order-of-accessibility]] (сходство 0.14)
* [[306-with-anthropic-s-cowork-platform|314-6-refined-[ingit]]-scope-with-cowork-in-mind](docs/02-anthropic-vacancies/314-6-refined-ingit-scope-with-cowork-in-mind.md) (сходство 0.12)
* [[280-the-specific-case-in-front-of-us]] (сходство 0.12)




----

_Смотрите также:_
* [[306-with-anthropic-s-cowork-platform|314-6-refined-[ingit]]-scope-with-cowork-in-mind](docs/02-anthropic-vacancies/314-6-refined-ingit-scope-with-cowork-in-mind.md)
* [[313-5-four-integration-paths-in-order-of-accessibility]]
* [[308-table-of-contents]]
* [[284-practical-recommendations-for-the-current-project]]

