{info:title=Источник}
Сгенерировано из: {{docs/obsidian/02-anthropic-vacancies/317-9-risks-and-open-questions.md}}
Дата: 2026-04-29
{info}

----
title: "9. Risks and Open Questions"
tags:
  * anthropic-vacancies
date: 2026-04-29
----

h1. 9. Risks and Open Questions


h2. Содержание

* [Contents|#contents]
* [9. Risks and Open Questions|#9-risks-and-open-questions]
  * [9.1. Cowork's Future Direction|#91-coworks-future-direction]
  * [9.2. MCP Standard Evolution|#92-mcp-standard-evolution]
  * [9.3. Cowork's Resource Consumption|#93-coworks-resource-consumption]
  * [9.4. Privacy and Sensitive Work|#94-privacy-and-sensitive-work]
  * [9.5. Author Capacity|#95-author-capacity]
  * [9.6. Open Questions|#96-open-questions]

----



{quote}_Абстракт_ (авто){quote}
>
{quote}🎯 _Проблема:_ Risks and Open Questions(9-risks-and-open-questions) - 9.1.{quote}
{quote}🔧 _Подход:_ Mitigation: InGit Projects with Cowork should be designed for efficient agent use, not chatty interaction.{quote}
{quote}✅ _Результат:_ --- --- Похожие документы: - 318-10-strategic-positioning(docs/02-anthropic-vacancies/318-10-strategic-positioning.md) (сходство 0.15) - 311-3-what-ingit-provides-that-cowork-lacks{quote}
{quote}🏷️ _Ключевые слова:_ {{cowork}}, {{ingit}}, {{anthropic}}, {{questions}}, {{vacancies}}, {{sensitive}}, {{integration}}, {{positioning}}{quote}
>



h2. Contents

* [9. Risks and Open Questions|#9-risks-and-open-questions]
  * [9.1. Cowork's Future Direction|#91-coworks-future-direction]
  * [9.2. MCP Standard Evolution|#92-mcp-standard-evolution]
  * [9.3. Cowork's Resource Consumption|#93-coworks-resource-consumption]
  * [9.4. Privacy and Sensitive Work|#94-privacy-and-sensitive-work]
  * [9.5. Author Capacity|#95-author-capacity]
  * [9.6. Open Questions|#96-open-questions]


{quote}[!TIP]{quote}
{quote}Документ содержит практические рекомендации и лучшие практики.{quote}




{quote}Several uncertainties merit explicit attention.{quote}

----





h2. 9. Risks and Open Questions

Several uncertainties merit explicit attention.

h3. 9.1. Cowork's Future Direction

Cowork is research preview. Anthropic's product roadmap not 
publicly committed. Possible scenarios:

_Scenario 1 — Cowork matures as expected_: Adds team 
sharing, mature MCP integration, Project templates. InGit 
positioning solid.

_Scenario 2 — Cowork pivots_: Anthropic redirects toward 
different model. Some current capabilities deprecated. InGit 
substrate still useful (offline-first), but Cowork integration 
weaker.

_Scenario 3 — Cowork captured by competition_: OpenAI, 
Google launch competing products. Cowork remains capable but 
loses market share. InGit needs broader compatibility.

Mitigation: InGit's value beyond Cowork (offline-first, 
portable, structured) ensures viability even in adverse 
scenarios. Don't over-commit to Cowork-specific features 
that lose value if Cowork changes.

h3. 9.2. MCP Standard Evolution

MCP is recent (late 2024). Standards still evolving. Risk 
that significant changes break existing servers.

Mitigation: MCP is open standard with multiple implementers. 
Even if Anthropic specifically changes direction, MCP 
continues. Build for MCP, not for Cowork-specific protocol.

h3. 9.3. Cowork's Resource Consumption

Per published reports, Cowork sessions consume significantly 
more usage allocation than chat (one Cowork Project session = 
20+ regular chats). For Pro users, limits may be hit quickly.

Mitigation: InGit Projects with Cowork should be designed 
for _efficient agent use_, not chatty interaction. 
Structured outputs, batch operations, scheduled tasks rather 
than real-time chat.

h3. 9.4. Privacy and Sensitive Work

Cowork's data flows through Anthropic infrastructure. For 
highly sensitive work (legal, medical, financial), this may 
be unacceptable.

Mitigation: InGit's offline mode remains valuable. For 
sensitive work, use InGit alone with manual workflows or 
local models. Cowork integration for non-sensitive components.

h3. 9.5. Author Capacity

The author of this paper has multiple active commitments: 
SGB legal cases, physical health considerations (GdB 70, 
Pflegegrad), Nautilus development, the eight existing 
documents in this series.

Adding active InGit/Cowork integration work may exceed 
realistic capacity.

Mitigation: Sequential progress. Start with Path 1 (no 
development). Expand only as bandwidth permits. Don't commit 
to ambitious timelines.

h3. 9.6. Open Questions

_Q1_: Will Anthropic open Project templates to third parties 
soon? Unknown.

_Q2_: Will MCP server distribution improve (registry, 
package management)? Currently fragmented.

_Q3_: How does pricing evolve? Cowork is currently 
expensive in usage; if costs drop, adoption accelerates.

_Q4_: Will Cowork add threading/branching/annotation features? 
If yes, fills more of Layer B gap; if no, leaves space for 
others.

_Q5_: Will competitors emerge? OpenAI, Google likely build 
similar capabilities. Standardization unclear.

These uncertainties shape but do not block progress. Path 1 
works regardless of any of them.

----



----

_Похожие документы:_
* [[318-10-strategic-positioning]] (сходство 0.15)
* [[306-with-anthropic-s-cowork-platform|311-3-what-[ingit]]-provides-that-cowork-lacks](docs/02-anthropic-vacancies/311-3-what-ingit-provides-that-cowork-lacks.md) (сходство 0.13)
* [[306-with-anthropic-s-cowork-platform|323-appendix-c-sample-[ingit]]-mcp-server-tool-specificat](docs/02-anthropic-vacancies/323-appendix-c-sample-ingit-mcp-server-tool-specificat.md) (сходство 0.13)




----

_Смотрите также:_
* [[318-10-strategic-positioning]]
* [[memnet|316-8-implications-for-[nautilus]]-and-okwf](docs/02-anthropic-vacancies/316-8-implications-for-nautilus-and-okwf.md)
* [[313-5-four-integration-paths-in-order-of-accessibility]]
* [[306-with-anthropic-s-cowork-platform|311-3-what-[ingit]]-provides-that-cowork-lacks](docs/02-anthropic-vacancies/311-3-what-ingit-provides-that-cowork-lacks.md)

