{info:title=Источник}
Сгенерировано из: {{docs/obsidian/02-anthropic-vacancies/319-acknowledgments.md}}
Дата: 2026-04-29
{info}

----
title: "Acknowledgments"
tags:
  * rag
  * architecture
  * collaboration
  * anthropic-vacancies
date: 2026-04-29
----

h1. Acknowledgments


h2. Содержание

* [Acknowledgments|#acknowledgments]
* [Angle / Perspective|#angle-perspective]
* [Упоминается в|#упоминается-в]
* [Упоминается в|#упоминается-в]
* [Связанные документы|#связанные-документы]
* [Связанные документы|#связанные-документы]

----



{quote}_Абстракт_ (авто){quote}
>
{quote}🎯 _Проблема:_ Acknowledgments This document emerged from author's question about how to --- Acknowledgments This document emerged from author's question about how to integrate InGit specifically{quote}
{quote}🔧 _Подход:_ Review Methodology v1.0 2.3 Infrastructure for AI-Collaborative Intellectual Work 2.4 InGit as Cowork-Native Workspace Substrate (this paper) 3.{quote}
{quote}✅ _Результат:_ The InGit project (URL provides the specific candidate substrate.{quote}
{quote}🏷️ _Ключевые слова:_ {{anthropic}}, {{cowork}}, {{document}}, {{layer}}, {{vacancies}}, {{acknowledgments}}, {{ingit}}, {{author}}{quote}
>



{quote}This document emerged from author's question about how to{quote}

----





h2. Acknowledgments

This document emerged from author's question about how to 
integrate InGit specifically with the Cowork tab in Claude 
Desktop. The question prompted Claude to research current 
Cowork capabilities (web searches conducted during the 
session) and discover that substantial Layer B infrastructure 
already exists in production.

This discovery substantially updated Document 2.3's framing. 
Where Document 2.3 treated Layer B as essentially missing, 
this document recognizes Cowork as substantial existing 
implementation requiring complementary substrate rather than 
competition.

The InGit project (https://github.com/svend4/ingit) provides 
the specific candidate substrate. Author's existing work on 
InGit makes this proposal practically achievable.

The four-path integration strategy emerged from analysis of 
Cowork's capabilities, MCP standard, and InGit's existing 
scope. The sequencing reflects pragmatic considerations of 
development effort, dependency on external API maturation, 
and value at each stage.

Author retained editorial authority. All claims, errors, and 
specific architectural proposals are author's responsibility. 
Claude contributed research and structure.

This is the ninth document in the series. With its inclusion:
1. Nautilus Portal Protocol v1.1
2. Review Methodology v1.0
2.3 Infrastructure for AI-Collaborative Intellectual Work
2.4 InGit as Cowork-Native Workspace Substrate (this paper)
3. Double-Triangle Architecture v1.0
4. Open Knowledge Work Foundation Concept Document v1.0
5. Representative Agent Layer v1.0
6. Professional Colleague Agents v1.0
7. Composite Skills Agent v1.0

The architectural vision now spans technical substrate (1, 
2.4), methodology (2), infrastructure (2.3), coordination (3), 
institution (4), and agent typology (5, 6, 7). Together they 
form unusually comprehensive treatment of AI-supported 
knowledge work.

----

h1. Angle / Perspective

h2. Angle / Perspective
Methodological: how-to и reflection.



----

_Похожие документы:_
* [[267-acknowledgments]] (сходство 0.26)
* [[306-with-anthropic-s-cowork-platform]] (сходство 0.25)
* [[274-the-missing-middle-layer-between-chat-and-code]] (сходство 0.23)




----

_Смотрите также:_
* [[306-with-anthropic-s-cowork-platform]]
* [[267-acknowledgments]]
* [[274-the-missing-middle-layer-between-chat-and-code]]
* [[355-существующие-документы-dhlab-твой-context]]


h2. Упоминается в

* [[318-10-strategic-positioning|10. Strategic Positioning]]
* [[317-9-risks-and-open-questions|9. Risks and Open Questions]]
* [[307-abstract|Abstract]]
* [[267-acknowledgments|Acknowledgments]]
* [[286-acknowledgments|Acknowledgments]]
* [[287-references|References]]
* [[275-why-this-document-exists|Why This Document Exists]]
* [[306-with-anthropic-s-cowork-platform|with Anthropic's Cowork Platform]]
* [[README|Вакансии Anthropic — Анализ по кластерам]]
* [[355-существующие-документы-dhlab-твой-context|Существующие документы DHLab (твой context)]]
h2. Упоминается в

* [[README|Вакансии Anthropic — Анализ по кластерам]]


h2. Связанные документы

* [[286-acknowledgments|Acknowledgments]] _42%_
* [[287-references|References]] _42%_
* [[251-ai-support-through-configurable-specialist-ensembl|AI Support Through Configurable Specialist Ensembles]] _37%_
* [[355-существующие-документы-dhlab-твой-context|Существующие документы DHLab (твой context)]] _37%_
* [[209-a-typology-of-ai-agents-on-the-principal-side-and-|A Typology of AI Agents on the Principal Side and the Case for Profession-Specific Co-Workers]] _33%_
* [[306-with-anthropic-s-cowork-platform|with Anthropic's Cowork Platform]] _29%_
* [[184-appendix-a-connection-to-companion-papers|Appendix A: Connection to Companion Papers]] _25%_
* [[267-acknowledgments|Acknowledgments]] _25%_
h2. Связанные документы

* [[286-acknowledgments|Acknowledgments]] _53%_
* [[267-acknowledgments|Acknowledgments]] _42%_
* [[287-references|References]] _37%_
* [[306-with-anthropic-s-cowork-platform|with Anthropic's Cowork Platform]] _37%_
* [[355-существующие-документы-dhlab-твой-context|Существующие документы DHLab (твой context)]] _37%_
* [[184-appendix-a-connection-to-companion-papers|Appendix A: Connection to Companion Papers]] _29%_
* [[209-a-typology-of-ai-agents-on-the-principal-side-and-|A Typology of AI Agents on the Principal Side and the Case for Profession-Specific Co-Workers]] _29%_
* [[251-ai-support-through-configurable-specialist-ensembl|AI Support Through Configurable Specialist Ensembles]] _29%_
