{info:title=Источник}
Сгенерировано из: {{docs/obsidian/02-anthropic-vacancies/320-references.md}}
Дата: 2026-04-29
{info}

----
title: "References"
tags:
  * anthropic
  * collaboration
  * anthropic-vacancies
date: 2026-04-29
----

h1. References


h2. Contents

* [References|#references]
  * [Primary External References|#primary-external-references]
  * [MCP Standard|#mcp-standard]
  * [Companion Documents in This Series|#companion-documents-in-this-series]
  * [Related Work|#related-work]



{quote}- Anthropic. (2026, January 12). _Claude Cowork_ [Product{quote}

----





h2. References

h3. Primary External References

* Anthropic. (2026, January 12). _Claude Cowork_ [Product 
  launch]. https://claude.com/product/cowork
* Anthropic. (2026, ongoing). _Cowork Help Center_. 
  https://support.claude.com/en/collections/13345190-cowork
* svend4. (2026, ongoing). _InGit_. 
  https://github.com/svend4/ingit

h3. MCP Standard

* Anthropic. (2024-2026). _Model Context Protocol_ 
  documentation and specifications.

h3. Companion Documents in This Series

All previous documents in the series, as listed in 
acknowledgments above.

h3. Related Work

* D. Richard Hipp. (2007-ongoing). _Fossil_. 
  https://www.fossil-scm.org/
* Various Cowork-Project tutorials and reviews from 2026.

----



----

_Похожие документы:_
* [[338-ссылки]] (сходство 0.32)
* [[306-with-anthropic-s-cowork-platform]] (сходство 0.17)
* [[287-references]] (сходство 0.14)




----

_Смотрите также:_
* [[338-ссылки]]
* [[73-portal-protocol-md-v1-1]]
* [[306-with-anthropic-s-cowork-platform]]
* [[125-readme-mcp-md-инструкция-по-установке]]


h2. Упоминается в

* [[README|Вакансии Anthropic — Анализ по кластерам]]


h2. Связанные документы

* [[287-references|References]] _25%_
* [[338-ссылки|Ссылки]] _25%_
* [[146-acknowledgments|Acknowledgments]] _21%_
* [[183-references|References]] _21%_
* [[225-references|References]] _21%_
* [[275-why-this-document-exists|Why This Document Exists]] _21%_
* [[285-closing|Closing]] _21%_
* [[286-acknowledgments|Acknowledgments]] _21%_
