{info:title=Источник}
Сгенерировано из: {{docs/obsidian/02-anthropic-vacancies/321-appendix-a-decision-tree-for-ingit-adopters.md}}
Дата: 2026-04-29
{info}

----
title: "Appendix A: Decision Tree for InGit Adopters"
tags:
  * anthropic-vacancies
date: 2026-04-29
----

h1. Appendix A: Decision Tree for InGit Adopters


{quote}Quick reference for users evaluating InGit + Cowork:{quote}

----





h2. Appendix A: Decision Tree for InGit Adopters

Quick reference for users evaluating InGit + Cowork:

{code}
Do you need structured workspace beyond plain folders?
├── No → Standard Cowork Project sufficient. Don't add 
│        complexity.
└── Yes →
    Do you have Claude Pro/Max subscription?
    ├── No → InGit alone valuable. Cowork later when 
    │        possible.
    └── Yes →
        Are you comfortable with Git, YAML, command line?
        ├── No → InGit may be too technical. Consider Notion 
        │        with custom database.
        └── Yes →
            Do you need offline operation or privacy?
            ├── Yes → InGit + Cowork combination ideal.
            └── No → InGit + Cowork still useful but Notion 
                     might serve.
{code}

This is rough heuristic. Actual decisions depend on specific 
needs.

----



----

_Похожие документы:_
* [[270-appendix-b-sub-agent-registry-schema-sketch]] (сходство 0.13)
* [[322-appendix-b-comparison-matrix]] (сходство 0.10)




----

_Смотрите также:_
* [[270-appendix-b-sub-agent-registry-schema-sketch]]
* [[28-appendix-a-minimal-working-example]]
* [[271-appendix-c-configuration-template-example]]
* [[322-appendix-b-comparison-matrix]]


h2. Упоминается в

* [[96-21-adr-003-five-onboarding-paths-as-equal-rank|21. ADR-003: Five Onboarding Paths as Equal-Rank]]
* [[322-appendix-b-comparison-matrix|Appendix B: Comparison Matrix]]
* [[270-appendix-b-sub-agent-registry-schema-sketch|Appendix B: Sub-Agent Registry Schema (Sketch)]]
* [[271-appendix-c-configuration-template-example|Appendix C: Configuration Template Example]]
* [[WORD_CLOUD|Word Cloud]]
* [[README|Вакансии Anthropic — Анализ по кластерам]]
* [[04-sozialrecht-domain|Домен: немецкое социальное право]]
* [[345-кто-ты|Кто ты]]
* [[360-что-ты-всегда-делаешь|Что ты ВСЕГДА делаешь]]
* [[352-что-ты-не-можешь-делать-без-max-approval|Что ты НЕ МОЖЕШЬ делать без Max approval]]
h2. Упоминается в

* [[README|Вакансии Anthropic — Анализ по кластерам]]


h2. Связанные документы

* [[270-appendix-b-sub-agent-registry-schema-sketch|Appendix B: Sub-Agent Registry Schema (Sketch)]] _42%_
* [[271-appendix-c-configuration-template-example|Appendix C: Configuration Template Example]] _42%_
* [[322-appendix-b-comparison-matrix|Appendix B: Comparison Matrix]] _25%_
* [[360-что-ты-всегда-делаешь|Что ты ВСЕГДА делаешь]] _21%_
h2. Связанные документы

* [[270-appendix-b-sub-agent-registry-schema-sketch|Appendix B: Sub-Agent Registry Schema (Sketch)]] _48%_
* [[271-appendix-c-configuration-template-example|Appendix C: Configuration Template Example]] _29%_
* [[308-table-of-contents|Table of Contents]] _25%_
* [[322-appendix-b-comparison-matrix|Appendix B: Comparison Matrix]] _25%_
* [[360-что-ты-всегда-делаешь|Что ты ВСЕГДА делаешь]] _25%_
* [[326-содержание|Содержание]] _21%_
* [[CLUSTERS|Кластеры тематически близких файлов]] _21%_
* [[PARAGRAPH_QUALITY|Качество абзацев]] _21%_
