{info:title=Источник}
Сгенерировано из: {{docs/obsidian/02-anthropic-vacancies/354-существующий-landscape-collaborators-твоя-working-.md}}
Дата: 2026-04-29
{info}

----
title: "Существующий landscape collaborators (твоя working knowledge)"
tags:
  * memory
  * knowledge
  * ingestion
  * roadmap
  * anthropic
  * collaboration
  * anthropic-vacancies
date: 2026-04-29
----

h1. Существующий landscape collaborators (твоя working knowledge)


{quote}_Абстракт_ (авто){quote}
>
{quote}🎯 _Проблема:_ Существующий landscape collaborators (твоя working knowledge) В Phase 1, ты особенно осведомлён об этих создателях/проектах (но open to discovering more): Проекты: CardIndex, knowl{quote}
{quote}🏷️ _Ключевые слова:_ {{knowledge}}, {{memory}}, {{space}}, {{anthropic}}, {{graph}}, {{agent}}, {{collaborators}}, {{protocol}}{quote}
>



{quote}В Phase 1, ты особенно осведомлён об этих создателях/проектах (но open to discovering more):{quote}
_Проекты:_ CardIndex, [[03-component-catalog|knowledge-space]], NGT Memory, Wikontic

----





h2. Существующий landscape collaborators (твоя working knowledge)

В Phase 1, ты особенно осведомлён об этих создателях/проектах (но open to discovering more):

_Tier 1 — highest priority collaborators_:
* _kagvi13 (HMP — HyperCortex Mesh Protocol)_: Decentralized cognitive mesh для AI agents. github.com/kagvi13/HMP. Версии HMP-0001→HMP-0005. Активная разработка. Это direct architectural twin to Nautilus Portal Protocol, но more developed.
* _Анастасия (Happyin Knowledge Space)_: 785 articles в 26 domains, knowledge written for AI consumption (not humans). happyin.space, github.com/AnastasiyaW/knowledge-space (MIT).
* _Андрей Чуян (Свяжи)_: Hybrid LLM + deterministic extraction для community profiles. [[01-executive-summary|CardIndex]] single source of truth. Closed code, но explicit invitation в comments.
* _Виталий (Graph cognitive memory in SQLite)_: Single-file SQLite implementation с episodic+semantic nodes, hybrid search (FTS5+vector+graph), Ebbinghaus forgetting curve. habr.com/ru/articles/1006622/.

_Tier 2 — strong supporting expertise_:
* _Алла Чепурова (Wikontic, AIRI)_: Ontology-aligned knowledge graphs.
* _Аскольд Романов (K2-18, Yandex)_: Quality metrics для extracted structures.
* _CoAlly team_: Distributed shared memory для multi-agent teams.

_Tier 3 — domain-adjacent_:
* _Артём (legal AI knowledge graph)_: Louvain community detection в legal КГ.
* _NGT Memory автор_: Hebbian associative graph.
* _Konstantin Chukavin (Обучай)_: Profession-wide AI deployment example.

_Existing infrastructure components_:
* _Hermes Agent_ (Nous Research, MIT): Personal autonomous agent
* _CAMEL_ (camel-ai/camel, Apache 2.0): Multi-agent framework
* _Cowork_ (Anthropic): Managed agentic workspace
* _MCP_ (Model Context Protocol): Tool interoperability standard



----

_Смотрите также:_
* [[WORD_FREQ]]
* [[341-приложение-c-образец-спецификаций-инструментов-ing]]
* [[136-abstract]]
* [[ENTITIES]]




----

_Похожие документы:_
* [[KEYWORD_INDEX]] (сходство 0.17)
* [[CONSISTENCY]] (сходство 0.16)
* [[NETWORK]] (сходство 0.14)

