{info:title=Источник}
Сгенерировано из: {{docs/obsidian/02-anthropic-vacancies/68-about.md}}
Дата: 2026-04-29
{info}

----
title: "🇬🇧 About"
tags:
  * rag
  * architecture
  * anthropic
  * collaboration
  * anthropic-vacancies
date: 2026-04-29
----

h1. 🇬🇧 About


{quote}_Абстракт_ (авто){quote}
>
{quote}🎯 _Проблема:_ Documentation - PORTAL-PROTOCOL.md(./PORTAL-PROTOCOL.md) — formal v1.0 specification (15 pages) - passports/(./passports/) — human-readable repo descriptions - info1(./passports/in{quote}
{quote}🔧 _Подход:_ - 0: Discoverable — declared in registry only - 1: Readable — has passport + describe() method - 2: Queryable — implements fetch(query) — search works - 3: Interactive — translatet{quote}
{quote}✅ _Результат:_ Reports always show attribution — which repo each result came from.{quote}
{quote}🏷️ _Ключевые слова:_ {{nautilus}}, {{portal}}, {{protocol}}, {{reference}}, {{https}}, {{anthropic}}, {{svend}}, {{passports}}{quote}
>



{quote}Nautilus is a _federation protocol_ and reference implementation{quote}

----


h2. Содержание

* [🇬🇧 About|#about]
  * [Philosophy|#philosophy]
  * [Reference Ecosystem: svend4|#reference-ecosystem-svend4]
  * [Quick Start|#quick-start]
  * [Connect Your Repository|#connect-your-repository]
  * [How It Works|#how-it-works]
  * [Compatibility Levels|#compatibility-levels]
  * [Documentation|#documentation]
  * [Project Status|#project-status]
  * [Why "Nautilus"?|#why-[nautilus](../docs/05-habr-projects/memory/memnet.md])
  * [Related Work|#related-work]
  * [Licenses|#licenses]
  * [Contact|#contact]

----






h2. 🇬🇧 About

Nautilus is a _federation protocol_ and reference implementation 
for independent git repositories containing knowledge in different 
native formats, without forcing them into a unified schema.

Just as an Office Suite reads {{.docx}}, {{.pdf}}, and {{.xlsx}} without 
merging them into one format — Nautilus reads repositories in an 
ecosystem, finds bridges between them, and builds a common search 
layer on top.

h3. Philosophy

Most modern knowledge systems (Notion, Obsidian, Roam, Coda) 
require migrating data into their unified format. This creates 
vendor lock-in, erases authorial models, and homogenizes different 
types of knowledge.

_Nautilus takes the opposite path:_

* Each repository keeps its native format
* Translation between formats happens through adapters, on demand
* Consensus is computed as intersection of results across repos
* Adding a new repository takes 5 minutes and requires no 
  refactoring

h3. Reference Ecosystem: svend4

Reference implementation demonstrates on three repositories:

|| Repo || Format || Content || Perspective ||
|| [info1](https://github.com/svend4/info1) || `.info1` || 74 documents with α-levels || Methodological ||
|| [pro2](https://github.com/svend4/pro2) || `.pro2` || Q6-graph, 64 vertices || Semantic ||
|| [meta](https://github.com/svend4/meta) || `.meta` || 256 CA rules + 64 hexagrams || Symbolic ||

The three-perspective structure is not accidental — it reflects 
Peirce's semiotic triad (pragmatic × semantic × syntactic), 
realized as a federated knowledge ecosystem.

h3. Quick Start

{code:language=bash}
git clone https://github.com/svend4/nautilus
cd nautilus
pip install -r requirements.txt

# CLI
python portal.py --query "crystal"

# Web interface
python portal.py --serve
# open http://localhost:8000

# MCP for Claude Desktop (in development)
# see MCP-EXTENSION.md
{code}

h3. Connect Your Repository

_Minimal (Level 0–1, 5 minutes):_

1. Place {{[[memnet|nautilus]].json}} in your repo's root:

{code:language=json}
{
  "name": "my-repo",
  "format": ".my-format",
  "native_unit": "what is stored",
  "bridges": {
    "info1": "how concepts correspond",
    "pro2": "...",
    "meta": "..."
  }
}
{code}

2. Write {{passport.md}} — a one-page description (see templates in 
   [{{passports/}}|./passports/])

_Full (Level 2–3, a few hours):_

3. Add an adapter in {{adapters/my_repo.py}} implementing the 
   {{[[01-интегральный-анализ-профиля-svend4|BaseAdapter]]}} interface (see 
   [[PORTAL-PROTOCOL|PORTAL-PROTOCOL.md §6]])

4. Register the repo in the portal's root {{[[memnet|nautilus]].json}}

h3. How It Works

{code}
┌──────────┐  ┌──────────┐  ┌──────────┐
│  info1   │  │   pro2   │  │   meta   │
│ α-levels │  │Q6-graph  │  │ CA-rules │
└────┬─────┘  └────┬─────┘  └────┬─────┘
     │             │             │
     └─────────────┼─────────────┘
                   │
           ⬡ Nautilus Portal
         (adapters + consensus)
                   │
         ┌─────────┼─────────┐
         │         │         │
       CLI       Web       MCP
                        (for Claude)
{code}

_Consensus_ is computed as intersection: a concept has "full 
consensus" if found in all queried repos; "partial" if found in 
some; "singular" if only in one. Reports always show attribution — 
which repo each result came from.

h3. Compatibility Levels

Repos are connected gradually — not necessarily at max level from 
day one.

* _0: Discoverable_ — declared in registry only
* _1: Readable_ — has passport + {{describe()}} method
* _2: Queryable_ — implements {{fetch(query)}} — search works
* _3: Interactive_ — {{translate_to()}} — cross-repo translations 
  via bridges

Details in [[PORTAL-PROTOCOL|PORTAL-PROTOCOL.md §5]].

h3. Documentation

* _[[PORTAL-PROTOCOL|PORTAL-PROTOCOL.md]]_ — formal v1.0 
  specification (15 pages)
* _[passports/|./passports/]_ — human-readable repo descriptions
  * [[info1]]
  * [[pro2]]
  * [[meta]]
* _Issues_ — questions, proposals, bug reports

h3. Project Status

Nautilus is under _active development_:

* ✅ Protocol v1.0 (draft) — specification written
* ✅ Reference implementation — portal working with three repos
* 🔄 MCP wrapper — in progress
* 🔄 PyPI packaging — planned
* 🔄 Arxiv preprint — planned
* ⏳ [MCP Registry|https://github.com/mcp] submission — after MCP 
  wrapper completion

_Current version_: v1.0.0-draft. Breaking changes possible until 
v1.0.0-stable.

h3. Why "Nautilus"?

A [[memnet|nautilus]] shell is a _spiral of nested chambers_, each larger 
than the last but built on the same geometry. This is *fractal 
scaling with preserved proportion*. Nautilus Protocol embodies the 
same pattern: repos nested inside an ecosystem, each self-contained 
yet connected by the same protocol, the same geometry of bridges.

h3. Related Work

Nautilus sits in the space of knowledge federation protocols, 
alongside:

* _[ActivityPub|https://activitypub.rocks/]_ (W3C) — federation 
  for social activities
* _[Solid|https://solidproject.org/]_ (Tim Berners-Lee) — 
  personal data pods
* _[Linked Data|https://www.w3.org/standards/semanticweb/data]_ 
  (W3C) — semantic web
* _[Model Context Protocol|https://github.com/anthropics/mcp]_ 
  (Anthropic) — LLM↔tools integration

Nautilus is unique in combining: (1) git-based storage, (2) 
native-format federation without unified schema, (3) 
consensus-based validation across repos.

h3. Licenses

* _Documentation_ (README, PORTAL-PROTOCOL, passports): 
  [CC BY 4.0|https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/]
* _Code_ (portal, adapters, glyph_adapter): 
  [MIT|./LICENSE]

h3. Contact

* _Author_: svend4
* _Get in touch_: via [Issues|https://github.com/svend4/nautilus/issues]

----



----

_Похожие документы:_
* [[67-о-проекте]] (сходство 0.17)
* [[memnet|141-4-[nautilus]]-portal-as-reference-substrate](docs/02-anthropic-vacancies/141-4-nautilus-portal-as-reference-substrate.md) (сходство 0.16)
* [[158-4-proposed-infrastructure]] (сходство 0.12)




----

_Смотрите также:_
* [[67-о-проекте]]
* [[memnet|141-4-[nautilus]]-portal-as-reference-substrate](docs/02-anthropic-vacancies/141-4-nautilus-portal-as-reference-substrate.md)
* [[158-4-proposed-infrastructure]]
* [[164-10-appendices]]

