{info:title=Источник}
Сгенерировано из: {{docs/nautilus/okwf-concept/00-abstract.md}}
Дата: 2026-04-29
{info}

h1. AI-Coordinated Infrastructure for Distributed Expert Contribution


{quote}> Источник: MHTML‑снимок {{Вакансии в Anthropic по кластерам - Claude}} (корень репозитория). Раздел диалога — paper «Open Knowledge Work Foundation Concept Document».{quote}

----





{quote}Источник: MHTML‑снимок {{Вакансии в Anthropic по кластерам - Claude}} (корень репозитория). Раздел диалога — paper «Open Knowledge Work Foundation Concept Document».{quote}

h1. Open Knowledge Work Foundation
h2. AI-Coordinated Infrastructure for Distributed Expert Contribution

_Concept Document_ 
_Version:_ 1.0.0-draft 
_Date:_ 2026-04-19 
_Author:_ svend4 
_Editorial collaboration:_ Claude (intellectual development, 2026-04) 
_Status:_ Working proposal, seeking foundational partners 
_License:_ CC BY 4.0

----

h2. Executive Summary

The Open Knowledge Work Foundation (OKWF) proposes to build 
infrastructure that enables qualified individuals outside 
traditional employment markets to make meaningful, compensated 
contributions to knowledge-intensive projects through 
AI-coordinated specialization.

We identify a systemic market failure: frontier AI companies 
have hundreds of unfilled senior positions (Anthropic alone had 
440 open roles as of April 2026), while simultaneously, 
substantial talent pools remain underutilized due to geographic, 
regulatory, health, or life-stage constraints. This includes 
retired experts, disabled specialists, career-switchers, and 
domain experts in non-CS backgrounds. Existing staffing platforms 
(Deel, Toptal, Upwork, Mercor) treat these populations as 
transactional labor, not as dignified contributors with persistent 
professional identity.

OKWF proposes a foundation-funded infrastructure combining:

1. _Nautilus Portal Protocol_ — open technical substrate for 
federated knowledge work
2. _Double-Triangle Architecture_ — human-AI collaboration 
pattern preserving individual autonomy
3. _Pattern library with private instances_ — compounding 
shared knowledge without privacy loss
4. _Guild-based community structure_ — persistent professional 
identity across engagements
5. _Graduated participation model_ — entry at any capacity, 
progression at individual pace
6. _Subsidiarity-based economic model_ — dignified stipend 
plus contribution bonuses, not charity and not employment

We propose three-year pilot, initial funding €3-8M, launching 
in German legal/social domain (which is unusually well-suited 
due to existing technical infrastructure and author's direct 
engagement with target populations), expanding to additional 
domains and geographies based on empirical outcomes.

This document is offered to potential foundation partners, 
academic collaborators, corporate sponsors, and policy 
stakeholders as basis for dialogue and refinement.

----

h2. Table of Contents

1. _Problem Statement_
2. _Target Populations_
3. _Why Existing Solutions Fail_
4. _Proposed Infrastructure_
5. _Economic Model_
6. _Governance and Ethics_
7. _Phased Rollout Plan_
8. _Risk Analysis_
9. _Call for Partnership_
10. _Appendices_

----



----

_Похожие документы:_
* [153-executive-summary|docs/obsidian/02-anthropic-vacancies/153-executive-summary.md] (сходство 0.78)
* [153-executive-summary|docs/02-anthropic-vacancies/153-executive-summary.md] (сходство 0.73)
* [10-appendices|docs/nautilus/okwf-concept/10-appendices.md] (сходство 0.22)

