{info:title=Источник}
Сгенерировано из: {{docs/nautilus/okwf-concept/05-economic-model.md}}
Дата: 2026-04-29
{info}

h1. 5. Economic Model

{quote}[!TIP]{quote}
{quote}Документ содержит практические рекомендации и лучшие практики.{quote}




{quote}> Источник: MHTML‑снимок {{Вакансии в Anthropic по кластерам - Claude}} (корень репозитория). Раздел диалога — paper «Open Knowledge Work Foundation Concept Document».{quote}

----


h2. Содержание

* [5. Economic Model|#5-economic-model]
  * [5.1. Budget Philosophy|#51-budget-philosophy]
  * [5.2. Three-Year Pilot Budget (Estimated)|#52-three-year-pilot-budget-estimated]
  * [5.3. Funding Strategy|#53-funding-strategy]
  * [5.4. Contributor Economics|#54-contributor-economics]

----






{quote}Источник: MHTML‑снимок {{Вакансии в Anthropic по кластерам - Claude}} (корень репозитория). Раздел диалога — paper «Open Knowledge Work Foundation Concept Document».{quote}

h2. 5. Economic Model

h3. 5.1. Budget Philosophy

OKWF is not and will not become a for-profit entity. Operational 
sustainability comes from:

1. _Core endowment_ from foundational corporate partners and 
foundation grants (€3-8M initial, growing to €50M+ target)
2. _Grant funding_ for specific initiatives and research (€1-3M 
annually)
3. _Earned revenue_ from commercial projects routed through 
platform (growing to majority of operational funding over 
5-7 years)
4. _Contributor fees_: explicit zero (0%) platform fees for 
contributors in dignity-preserving roles

h3. 5.2. Three-Year Pilot Budget (Estimated)

|| Category || Year 1 || Year 2 || Year 3 ||
|| Core staff (5-8 people) || €600K || €900K || €1.2M ||
|| Infrastructure development || €400K || €300K || €300K ||
|| Contributor stipends (growing cohort) || €300K || €1.2M || €2.5M ||
|| Contributor bonuses || €100K || €400K || €1M ||
|| Legal and compliance || €150K || €200K || €300K ||
|| Administrative and governance || €100K || €150K || €200K ||
|| Community events and outreach || €100K || €150K || €250K ||
|| Reserve and contingency || €250K || €500K || €750K ||
|| **Total annual** || **€2M** || **€3.8M** || **€6.5M** ||

Three-year total: €12.3M

h3. 5.3. Funding Strategy

_Phase 1 (months 1-6)_: Secure anchor partnership (€2-3M 
commitment over 3 years) from one AI company. Most likely 
candidate: Anthropic Public Benefit team, which has explicit 
mission alignment and existing programs.

_Phase 2 (months 3-9, overlapping)_: Secure secondary 
partnerships (€500K-1M each) from 2-3 additional sources:
* Complementary AI company (Mistral, Cohere)
* Foundation grant (Mozilla, Ford, Wikimedia)
* EU program grant (EIC Pathfinder, Horizon Europe)

_Phase 3 (months 6-18)_: Launch commercial project revenue 
stream. Target: €200K-500K in Year 1 commercial revenue 
scaling to €2M+ in Year 3.

_Phase 4 (Year 2-3)_: Develop endowment through success-contingent 
additional sponsorships.

h3. 5.4. Contributor Economics

Representative contributor profiles:

_Contributor A_: Retired German law professor, 20 hours/week
* Base stipend: €800/month
* Typical bonuses: €500-1500/month (from 1-2 completed projects)
* Annual total: €15,600-27,600
* Other income: pension, partial

_Contributor B_: Disabled senior engineer (like document 
author), 15 hours/week
* Base stipend: €900/month (reflecting Germany cost-of-living)
* Typical bonuses: €800-2000/month (from specialized technical work)
* Annual total: €20,400-34,800
* Other income: disability pension, does not conflict with 
foundation work structure

_Contributor C_: Domain expert in Belarus, 25 hours/week
* Base stipend: €600/month (local cost-of-living adjusted)
* Typical bonuses: €1000-3000/month (from technical work)
* Annual total: €19,200-43,200
* Local purchasing power equivalent to €40K-90K in Germany

_Contributor D_: Career-switcher PhD teacher in Spain, 10 
hours/week
* Base stipend: €500/month (limited engagement)
* Typical bonuses: €300-800/month
* Annual total: €9,600-15,600
* Supplements existing income, explores transition

These profiles are illustrative. Actual compensation reflects 
engagement level, impact, skill, and region. Foundation commits 
to minimum dignity threshold; upward is merit-based.

----



----

_Смотрите также:_
* [159-5-economic-model|docs/02-anthropic-vacancies/159-5-economic-model.md]
* [07-phased-rollout|docs/nautilus/okwf-concept/07-phased-rollout.md]
* [04-proposed-infrastructure|docs/nautilus/okwf-concept/04-proposed-infrastructure.md]
* [09-call-for-partnership|docs/nautilus/okwf-concept/09-call-for-partnership.md]




----

_Похожие документы:_
* [159-5-economic-model|docs/02-anthropic-vacancies/159-5-economic-model.md] (сходство 0.87)
* [159-5-economic-model|docs/obsidian/02-anthropic-vacancies/159-5-economic-model.md] (сходство 0.86)
* [07-phased-rollout|docs/nautilus/okwf-concept/07-phased-rollout.md] (сходство 0.23)

