{info:title=Источник}
Сгенерировано из: {{docs/nautilus/okwf-concept/10-appendices.md}}
Дата: 2026-04-29
{info}

h1. 10. Appendices


{quote}> Источник: MHTML‑снимок {{Вакансии в Anthropic по кластерам - Claude}} (корень репозитория). Раздел диалога — paper «Open Knowledge Work Foundation Concept Document».{quote}

----


h2. Содержание

* [10. Appendices|#10-appendices]
  * [Appendix A: Comparison Matrix Against Existing Solutions|#appendix-a-comparison-matrix-against-existing-solutions]
  * [Appendix B: Reference Implementation Status|#appendix-b-reference-implementation-status]
  * [Appendix C: Founder Biography|#appendix-c-founder-biography]
  * [Appendix D: Specific Anchor Partnership Proposal to Anthropic|#appendix-d-specific-anchor-partnership-proposal-to-anthropic]
  * [Appendix E: Key Open Questions for Potential Partners|#appendix-e-key-open-questions-for-potential-partners]

----






{quote}Источник: MHTML‑снимок {{Вакансии в Anthropic по кластерам - Claude}} (корень репозитория). Раздел диалога — paper «Open Knowledge Work Foundation Concept Document».{quote}

h2. 10. Appendices

h3. Appendix A: Comparison Matrix Against Existing Solutions

|| Feature || OKWF || Deel || Upwork || Toptal || Mercor || OSS Foundations || Employment ||
|| Cross-border compliance || ✓ || ✓ || Partial || ✓ || ✓ || — || — ||
|| Part-time capacity support || ✓ || Partial || ✓ || Partial || Partial || ✓ || ✗ ||
|| Dignity preservation || ✓ || ✗ || ✗ || ✗ || ✗ || ✓ || ✓ ||
|| Community continuity || ✓ || ✗ || ✗ || Partial || ✗ || ✓ || ✓ ||
|| AI-assisted coordination || ✓ || ✗ || Partial || ✗ || ✓ || ✗ || ✗ ||
|| Pattern library || ✓ || ✗ || ✗ || ✗ || ✗ || Partial || ✗ ||
|| Guild structure || ✓ || ✗ || ✗ || ✗ || ✗ || Partial || Partial ||
|| Reputation portability || ✓ || ✗ || ✓ || ✓ || ✓ || ✓ || Partial ||
|| Mission alignment || ✓ || ✗ || ✗ || ✗ || ✗ || ✓ || Varies ||
|| Graduated progression || ✓ || ✗ || ✗ || ✗ || ✗ || ✓ || ✓ ||
|| Funded baseline stipend || ✓ || ✗ || ✗ || ✗ || ✗ || ✗ || ✓ ||

h3. Appendix B: Reference Implementation Status

_Nautilus Portal Protocol v1.1_:
* 6,782 LOC Python, 60 tests passing, 0 mypy errors
* 13 adapters, 7 repositories federated
* REST API, SDK, MCP integration, OpenAPI specification
* Docker deployment, CI/CD via GitHub Actions
* Documentation: README, STATUS, INTEGRATION, PORTAL-PROTOCOL 
(15+ pages formal spec), REVIEW_METHODOLOGY, 
DOUBLE-TRIANGLE-ARCHITECTURE (20 pages)
* License: CC BY 4.0 (docs), MIT (code)
* Location: {{github.com/svend4/nautilus}}

_Humanities Extension_ (in development):
* Draft specification and adapter designs
* Pilot contributions planned for legal writing guild
* Anonymization pipeline under design

_Development capacity for production infrastructure_:
* Technical substrate: 6-9 months with 2-3 dedicated engineers
* Compliance infrastructure: 4-6 months with specialized counsel
* Community infrastructure: 6-12 months with community designers

h3. Appendix C: Founder Biography

_Author_ (svend4) is a software architect and legal advocate 
based in Dresden, Germany, working on Sozialgericht proceedings 
(cases S 6 SO 58/26 ER and S 7 SO 99/25) involving 
Eingliederungshilfe, Persönliches Budget, and disability rights. 
Holds disability status (GdB 70, Pflegegrad 2-3). Multilingual 
(Russian, German, English).

Demonstrated capacity through 4-month development of Nautilus 
Portal Protocol and associated infrastructure (70+ repositories, 
production-grade reference implementation). Personal circumstance 
(disability, geographic constraints, active legal proceedings) 
makes author ideal type-specimen target contributor for OKWF, 
providing authentic credibility and mission alignment.

Author proposes serving as _founder_ but not necessarily 
_Executive Director_. Foundation leadership should be 
professionally selected with relevant experience; author will 
contribute as architectural visionary and early participant.

h3. Appendix D: Specific Anchor Partnership Proposal to Anthropic

_Target_: Anthropic Beneficial Deployments team

_Why Anthropic specifically_:
* Public Benefit Corporation structure aligns with foundation 
mission
* Existing programs for beneficial deployments suggest appetite 
for infrastructure investment
* 440+ open positions demonstrates scale of unmet demand
* Claude and Claude Code are natural infrastructure substrate
* Anthropic's values on safety, inclusion, beneficial AI map 
directly to OKWF mission

_Proposed engagement structure_:
* 3-year commitment at €1-1.5M per year
* Governance board seat (1 of 7)
* Technical integration (Claude access for contributors at 
sustainable rate)
* Staff mentorship for contributor community
* Co-authored case studies on outcomes

_Return on investment for Anthropic_:
* Talent pipeline that current hiring pipeline cannot reach
* Demonstrable alignment between stated values and operational 
commitments
* Research insights on distributed AI-assisted work patterns
* Goodwill with disability, elder, and geographic diversity 
populations
* Potential to influence policy on AI-assisted work models

_Timeline to formal proposal_:
* Initial outreach: next 30 days (author can draft warm 
approach to Beneficial Deployments team lead)
* First exploratory conversation: within 60 days
* Formal proposal submission: within 120 days
* Decision target: 180-240 days

h3. Appendix E: Key Open Questions for Potential Partners

These questions await substantive input from partners:



----

_Смотрите также:_
* [164-10-appendices|docs/02-anthropic-vacancies/164-10-appendices.md]
* [04-proposed-infrastructure|docs/nautilus/okwf-concept/04-proposed-infrastructure.md]
* [09-call-for-partnership|docs/nautilus/okwf-concept/09-call-for-partnership.md]
* [08-pilot-sgb-advocate|docs/nautilus/professional-colleague-agents-en/08-pilot-sgb-advocate.md]




----

_Похожие документы:_
* [164-10-appendices|docs/obsidian/02-anthropic-vacancies/164-10-appendices.md] (сходство 0.75)
* [164-10-appendices|docs/02-anthropic-vacancies/164-10-appendices.md] (сходство 0.73)
* [00-abstract|docs/nautilus/okwf-concept/00-abstract.md] (сходство 0.22)

