{info:title=Источник}
Сгенерировано из: {{docs/lorenzo-agent/specification/03-q3-what-lorenzo-does.md}}
Дата: 2026-04-29
{info}

h1. Question 3: Что Lorenzo фактически делает?


{quote}> Источник: MHTML‑снимок {{Вакансии в Anthropic по кластерам - Claude}} (корень репозитория). Раздел диалога — Direction E: refining Lorenzo before strategic decisions. Это процесс, который привёл к фин{quote}
_Проекты:_ CardIndex

----





{quote}Источник: MHTML‑снимок {{Вакансии в Anthropic по кластерам - Claude}} (корень репозитория). Раздел диалога — Direction E: refining Lorenzo before strategic decisions. Это процесс, который привёл к финальному системному промпту в [{{../}}|../].{quote}

Question 3: Что Lorenzo фактически делает?

Нужно very specifically articulate. Не general «catalyst», но specific actions.

Concrete daily/weekly actions

Daily:

Reads ~50 new Habr articles (filtered by relevance)

Reads ~20 new ArXiv papers (AI/social impact areas)

Watches ~10 GitHub repositories для new commits

Updates internal CardIndex с новыми profiles/projects

Drafts 1-2 outreach messages (для Max review)

Weekly:

Generates synthesis proposal (which projects might combine)

Drafts 1 blog post (DHLab announcements)

Reviews coordination state (active collaborations)

Updates project status pages

Monthly:

Architectural review (does anything need rebuild)

Outreach campaign (5-10 specific authors)

Synthesis publication (what new connections were made)

Pattern documentation (lessons learned)

Quarterly:

Strategic review с Max

Public report («what Lorenzo did this quarter»)

New domain exploration (medical advocacy? educational?)

Это gives concrete picture что Lorenzo actually does. Не abstract «catalyzes», но specific tasks.



----

_Смотрите также:_
* [05-q5-authority-limits|docs/lorenzo-agent/specification/05-q5-authority-limits.md]
* [07-q7-success-metrics|docs/lorenzo-agent/specification/07-q7-success-metrics.md]
* [06-q6-accountability|docs/lorenzo-agent/specification/06-q6-accountability.md]
* [02-q2-whom-lorenzo-serves|docs/lorenzo-agent/specification/02-q2-whom-lorenzo-serves.md]




----

_Похожие документы:_
* [07-q7-success-metrics|docs/lorenzo-agent/specification/07-q7-success-metrics.md] (сходство 0.26)
* [05-q5-authority-limits|docs/lorenzo-agent/specification/05-q5-authority-limits.md] (сходство 0.26)
* [06-q6-accountability|docs/lorenzo-agent/specification/06-q6-accountability.md] (сходство 0.24)

