{info:title=Источник}
Сгенерировано из: {{docs/nautilus/composite-skills-agents/10-risks.md}}
Дата: 2026-04-29
{info}

h1. 10. Risks Specific to Composite Architectures

{quote}[!TIP]{quote}
{quote}Документ содержит практические рекомендации и лучшие практики.{quote}




{quote}> Источник: MHTML‑снимок {{Вакансии в Anthropic по кластерам - Claude}} (корень репозитория). Раздел диалога — paper «Composite Skills Agents».{quote}

----


h2. Содержание

* [10. Risks Specific to Composite Architectures|#10-risks-specific-to-composite-architectures]
  * [10.1. Risk: Configuration Paralysis|#101-risk-configuration-paralysis]
  * [10.2. Risk: Configuration Echo Chamber|#102-risk-configuration-echo-chamber]
  * [10.3. Risk: Sub-Agent Dependency|#103-risk-sub-agent-dependency]
  * [10.4. Risk: Coordinator Bias|#104-risk-coordinator-bias]
  * [10.5. Risk: Quality Variation Across Sub-Agents|#105-risk-quality-variation-across-sub-agents]
  * [10.6. Risk: Profession Fragmentation|#106-risk-profession-fragmentation]
  * [10.7. Risk: Hidden Dependencies Among Sub-Agents|#107-risk-hidden-dependencies-among-sub-agents]
  * [10.8. Risk: Configuration as Competitive Advantage Hoarding|#108-risk-configuration-as-competitive-advantage-hoarding]

----






{quote}Источник: MHTML‑снимок {{Вакансии в Anthropic по кластерам - Claude}} (корень репозитория). Раздел диалога — paper «Composite Skills Agents».{quote}

h2. 10. Risks Specific to Composite Architectures

Composite Skills Agents inherit some risks from Professional 
Colleague Agents but also introduce new risks specific to 
ensemble configurations.

h3. 10.1. Risk: Configuration Paralysis

_Scenario_: Faced with hundreds of available sub-agents, the 
principal cannot decide which to include. Configuration becomes 
overwhelming task. Principal gives up and uses generic 
Professional Colleague Agent instead, missing the value of 
composite.

_Mitigations_:
* Strong starting templates for common professional patterns
* AI-assisted recommendation as default (with override)
* Limit on initial configuration size (start with 5-10, grow 
over time)
* Mentor connection for complex configuration decisions

h3. 10.2. Risk: Configuration Echo Chamber

_Scenario_: Principal selects sub-agents that confirm their 
existing approach, missing specializations that would challenge 
or expand their practice. Composite becomes a sophisticated 
form of confirmation bias.

_Mitigations_:
* Recommendation system explicitly suggests "growth-edge" 
sub-agents outside principal's current configuration
* Regular configuration reviews with prompts to consider 
unfamiliar specializations
* Mentor input that intentionally surfaces alternative 
perspectives
* Public visibility of how others in the same profession 
configure differently

h3. 10.3. Risk: Sub-Agent Dependency

_Scenario_: Principal becomes dependent on a specific sub-agent 
that is later deprecated or significantly changed. Their practice 
disrupts when configuration needs to change.

_Mitigations_:
* Open standards make sub-agents portable and replaceable
* Multiple sub-agents covering same specialization (compete on 
quality, not lock-in)
* Notification when sub-agent will be deprecated, with 
migration paths
* Configuration export so principal can move between 
coordinator providers

h3. 10.4. Risk: Coordinator Bias

_Scenario_: The coordinator (general infrastructure managing 
configurations) develops biases in routing or synthesis that 
systematically favor some sub-agents over others. Practice 
patterns shift in ways principals didn't choose.

_Mitigations_:
* Open coordinator architecture, with multiple coordinator 
options
* Transparent routing logic (principal can see why sub-agent 
was selected)
* Auditable behavior over time
* Coordinator evaluation as part of platform governance

h3. 10.5. Risk: Quality Variation Across Sub-Agents

_Scenario_: Sub-agent registry includes high-quality and 
low-quality sub-agents. Principals using lower-quality sub-agents 
in their configurations get poorer support without realizing it.

_Mitigations_:
* Visible quality indicators on sub-agents
* Curation standards for inclusion in main registry
* User feedback loops affecting visibility
* Federated curation allowing principals to choose which 
curators they trust

h3. 10.6. Risk: Profession Fragmentation

_Scenario_: As composite configurations diversify, professional 
practice fragments. Practitioners working on similar problems 
develop incompatible approaches because they used different 
sub-agent configurations. Professional coherence weakens.

_Mitigations_:
* Sub-agents share common foundational knowledge (so 
configurations diverge from a common base)
* Guild structure maintains profession-level community across 
diverse configurations
* Cross-configuration patterns in shared pattern library
* Recognition that some fragmentation is healthy diversification 
versus unhealthy disconnection

h3. 10.7. Risk: Hidden Dependencies Among Sub-Agents

_Scenario_: A configuration appears to work well, but its 
output depends on subtle interactions between specific sub-agents. 
When one sub-agent updates, the configuration's output changes 
in ways neither principal nor coordinator anticipated.

_Mitigations_:
* Version pinning (configurations specify exact sub-agent 
versions, opt into updates)
* Compatibility testing when sub-agents update
* Notification of significant behavioral changes in 
sub-agents
* Configuration testing against past examples to detect drift

h3. 10.8. Risk: Configuration as Competitive Advantage Hoarding

_Scenario_: Principals discover that specific configurations 
are particularly effective. They keep these configurations 
secret as competitive advantage. Configuration knowledge becomes 
hoarded rather than shared, limiting benefit to broader 
practice.

_Mitigations_:
* Default openness about configurations (shared by default, 
opt-in to keep private)
* Anonymized configuration patterns published in pattern 
library
* Recognition for sharing effective configurations
* Cooperative ownership models that align individual benefit 
with collective improvement

----



----

_Смотрите также:_
* [263-10-risks-specific-to-composite-architectures|docs/02-anthropic-vacancies/263-10-risks-specific-to-composite-architectures.md]
* [09-okwf-integration|docs/nautilus/composite-skills-agents/09-okwf-integration.md]
* [11-open-questions|docs/nautilus/composite-skills-agents/11-open-questions.md]
* [04-sub-agent-registry|docs/nautilus/composite-skills-agents/04-sub-agent-registry.md]




----

_Похожие документы:_
* [263-10-risks-specific-to-composite-architectures|docs/obsidian/02-anthropic-vacancies/263-10-risks-specific-to-composite-architectures.md] (сходство 0.90)
* [263-10-risks-specific-to-composite-architectures|docs/02-anthropic-vacancies/263-10-risks-specific-to-composite-architectures.md] (сходство 0.86)
* [09-okwf-integration|docs/nautilus/composite-skills-agents/09-okwf-integration.md] (сходство 0.20)

