{info:title=Источник}
Сгенерировано из: {{docs/obsidian/lorenzo-agent/specification/01-q1-what-lorenzo-is.md}}
Дата: 2026-04-29
{info}

----
title: "Question 1: Что Lorenzo фундаментально такое? (Framings A–D)"
tags:
  * anthropic
  * lorenzo-agent
date: 2026-04-29
----

h1. Question 1: Что Lorenzo фундаментально такое? (Framings A–D)


{quote}> Источник: MHTML‑снимок {{Вакансии в Anthropic по кластерам - Claude}} (корень репозитория). Раздел диалога — Direction E: refining Lorenzo before strategic decisions. Это процесс, который привёл к фин{quote}

----





{quote}Источник: MHTML‑снимок {{Вакансии в Anthropic по кластерам - Claude}} (корень репозитория). Раздел диалога — Direction E: refining Lorenzo before strategic decisions. Это процесс, который привёл к финальному системному промпту в [{{../}}|../].{quote}

Question 1: Что Lorenzo фундаментально такое?

Нужно выбрать между несколькими possible framings:

Framing A: Lorenzo как AI persona Max-а

Max controls, Lorenzo executes

Lorenzo это mouthpiece + amplifier Max-а

All decisions Max-а, Lorenzo proposes/drafts

Identity: «I am Lorenzo, AI catalyst working under Max's direction»

Framing B: Lorenzo как autonomous AI agent с mission

Lorenzo independent identity, mission driven

Max created но не controls daily operations

Lorenzo makes own decisions within ethical constraints

Identity: «I am Lorenzo, AI catalyst agent dedicated to community synthesis»

Framing C: Lorenzo как collaborative entity (Max + AI)

Hybrid identity — Max-Lorenzo

Collaborative work, neither solely responsible

Public признание joint authorship

Identity: «We are Lorenzo — Max and AI in collaboration»

Framing D: Lorenzo как tool с personality

No real autonomy claims

«Tool that we name Lorenzo for memorability»

All actions clearly Max-а через AI tool

Identity: «Lorenzo is a workflow tool used by Max»

Critical implication этих framings

Framing A is most defensible legally/ethically — clear human responsibility, AI as instrument
Framing B is most ambitious but raises serious autonomy questions
Framing C is honest but сomplicated to communicate
Framing D is safest but loses much of Lorenzo's strategic value

My honest recommendation: Framing A (with elements of C) is most feasible.

Это means:

Max retains all decision authority

Lorenzo public-facing AI persona executing under Max's direction

Transparency: «AI agent under human direction»

Лoренzo может «have опinions» but Max approves all outreach

Avoids autonomy controversies while preserving brand benefits

Если согласны с Framing A, продолжаем. Если другое framing prefer, design changes.



----

_Смотрите также:_
* [[02-q2-whom-lorenzo-serves]]
* [[08-q8-other-ai-relationships]]
* [[05-q5-authority-limits]]
* [[06-q6-accountability]]




----

_Похожие документы:_
* [[06-q6-accountability]] (сходство 0.22)
* [[08-q8-other-ai-relationships]] (сходство 0.22)
* [[02-q2-whom-lorenzo-serves]] (сходство 0.22)

