{info:title=Источник}
Сгенерировано из: {{docs/obsidian/technology-combinations/combinations/26-ast-based-code-analysis-for-legal-automation.md}}
Дата: 2026-04-29
{info}

----
title: "Комбинация 26: AST-Based Code Analysis for Legal Automation"
tags:
  * rag
  * technology-combinations
date: 2026-04-29
----

h1. Комбинация 26: AST-Based Code Analysis for Legal Automation


{quote}> Источник: MHTML‑снимок {{Комбинирование технологий для новых свойств - Claude}} (корень репозитория).{quote}

----





{quote}Источник: MHTML‑снимок {{Комбинирование технологий для новых свойств - Claude}} (корень репозитория).{quote}

Родители:

Python AST (code analysis, transformation)

ASTChunk (structural code chunking for RAG)

Pydantic validation (structured outputs)

LLM parsing (code → structured data)

Дети:

Legal automation script analyzer

Analyze existing legal automation scripts

Extract legal logic into structured format

Generate documentation automatically

Architecture:

python

h1. Input: Python script for Fristwahrung calculation
script = load_script("fristwahrung_calculator.py")

h1. AST analysis
ast_tree = ast.parse(script)

h1. Extract legal logic
legal_logic = extract_legal_rules(ast_tree)
h1. → Pydantic model: LegalRule(
h1. name="Widerspruchsfrist",
h1. base_duration=timedelta(days(),
h1. extensions=[...],
h1. legal_basis="SGG § 84"
h1. )

h1. ASTChunk for RAG
chunks = astchunk.chunkify(script, metadata_template="legal")
h1. → Each chunk: code + legal context

Cross-script legal consistency checker

Multiple scripts calculate deadlines differently

AST extracts calculation logic from each

LLM identifies inconsistencies

Pydantic validates proposed fixes

ROI: Prevents errors from inconsistent legal implementations

Уникальность: First application of ASTChunk to legal domain. Treats legal automation code as documentation source. Enables LLM-based code understanding with structural awareness.



----

_Смотрите также:_
* [[28-pydantic-enforced-legal-workflows]]
* [[27-hybrid-rag-with-ast-chunked-code]]
* [[25-legal-dsl-code-transpiler]]
* [[29-meta-programmatic-legal-template-generator]]




----

_Похожие документы:_
* [[25-legal-dsl-code-transpiler]] (сходство 0.27)
* [[13-legal-document-transpiler]] (сходство 0.25)
* [[28-pydantic-enforced-legal-workflows]] (сходство 0.25)

