{info:title=Источник}
Сгенерировано из: {{docs/obsidian/technology-combinations/combinations/29-meta-programmatic-legal-template-generator.md}}
Дата: 2026-04-29
{info}

----
title: "Комбинация 29: Meta-Programmatic Legal Template Generator"
tags:
  * rag
  * architecture
  * technology-combinations
date: 2026-04-29
----

h1. Комбинация 29: Meta-Programmatic Legal Template Generator


{quote}> Источник: MHTML‑снимок {{Комбинирование технологий для новых свойств - Claude}} (корень репозитория).{quote}

----





{quote}Источник: MHTML‑снимок {{Комбинирование технологий для новых свойств - Claude}} (корень репозитория).{quote}

Родители:

DSL metaprogramming (domain-specific legal language)

Python AST (code generation)

Pydantic schemas (legal object validation)

German legal templates (Widerspruch, Klage, Antrag)

Дети:

DSL → Template compiler

python

h1. Legal DSL (declarative)
template WiderspruchKSV {
against: Bescheid
grounds: [
violation("SGB IX § 78 Abs. 6", "insufficient support hours"),
violation("BSG B 8 SO 9/19 R", "retroactive personal budget")
]
demands: [
approve_personal_budget(hours=24/7),
retroactive_payment(from=against.application_date)
]
}

h1. Compiler generates Python code
class WiderspruchKSV:
def _init_(self, bescheid: Bescheid):
self.gegen = bescheid
self.violations = [...] # auto-generated

def render(self) -> Document:
h1. auto-generated rendering logic

Multi-format output generator

Single DSL source → multiple output formats

PDF (formal submission), DOCX (editing), HTML (preview), JSON (API)

Python AST generates format-specific renderers

ROI: Write once, deploy everywhere

Уникальность: Legal templates as compiled DSL. Changes to legal requirements → recompile DSL → all templates updated. First application of metaprogramming to German Sozialrecht.



----

_Смотрите также:_
* [[25-legal-dsl-code-transpiler]]
* [[28-pydantic-enforced-legal-workflows]]
* [[25-30-extended]]
* [[10-legal-document-intelligence-pipeline]]




----

_Похожие документы:_
* [[25-legal-dsl-code-transpiler]] (сходство 0.30)
* [[28-pydantic-enforced-legal-workflows]] (сходство 0.28)
* [[25-30-extended]] (сходство 0.27)

