{info:title=Источник}
Сгенерировано из: {{docs/nautilus/infrastructure-layer-b-en/04-whats-missing-layer-b.md}}
Дата: 2026-04-29
{info}

h1. What's Missing — Layer B


{quote}> Источник: MHTML‑снимок {{Вакансии в Anthropic по кластерам - Claude}} (корень репозитория). Раздел диалога — paper «Infrastructure for AI-Collaborative Intellectual Work (EN)».{quote}

----





{quote}Источник: MHTML‑снимок {{Вакансии в Anthropic по кластерам - Claude}} (корень репозитория). Раздел диалога — paper «Infrastructure for AI-Collaborative Intellectual Work (EN)».{quote}

h2. What's Missing — Layer B

Between chat and repository, there should exist Layer B: an 
intellectual workspace for project development.

What would Layer B look like, ideally?

It would maintain the _fluid creativity_ of chat while adding 
the _structural stability_ of repository. It would allow 
_branching exploration_ without losing context. It would 
preserve _specific points_ that can be revisited and developed 
further. It would support _AI collaboration_ as a first-class 
operation, not as an external tool.

Concretely, Layer B would offer:

_Threading and branching._ From any message in a discussion, 
the user could create a branch — a sub-thread that explores 
an idea further while preserving the parent. Branches could 
be merged back, abandoned, or remain as alternate developments.

_Annotation on documents._ Specific sections of documents 
could be annotated with comments. Comments could be threaded. 
Other AI agents (or human collaborators) could respond to 
comments. Annotations would persist across document versions.

_Cross-references._ Documents and discussion threads could 
link to each other explicitly. A reference from Document 7 to 
Document 6 would be a real link, not just text. Following the 
link would show context — the surrounding section in the target.

_Versioning without code-orientation._ Documents could be 
versioned, with diffs shown, but without the cultural overhead 
of pull requests and code review processes. Edits could be 
collaborative, with AI assistance integrated.

_AI collaboration as primary operation._ Each thread, each 
document, each annotation could be developed in collaboration 
with AI. The AI would have access to the full context of the 
project — not just the current message, but the entire web 
of related materials.

_Promotion workflow._ Content developed in Layer B could be 
promoted to Layer C (committed to repository) when stable 
enough. Content from Layer A (chat) could be promoted to Layer 
B when worth preserving for further development.

_Bidirectional flow._ Promotion is not one-way. Material 
in Layer C could be brought back to Layer B for further 
development, then re-promoted. Material in Layer B could be 
extracted to chat for fresh exploration with reduced context.

This is the infrastructure that doesn't exist as a unified 
product.

----



----

_Смотрите также:_
* [277-what-s-missing-layer-b|docs/02-anthropic-vacancies/277-what-s-missing-layer-b.md]
* [06-existing-approximations|docs/nautilus/infrastructure-layer-b-en/06-existing-approximations.md]
* [07-specific-case|docs/nautilus/infrastructure-layer-b-en/07-specific-case.md]
* [03-two-layer-stack|docs/nautilus/infrastructure-layer-b-en/03-two-layer-stack.md]




----

_Похожие документы:_
* [277-what-s-missing-layer-b|docs/obsidian/02-anthropic-vacancies/277-what-s-missing-layer-b.md] (сходство 0.83)
* [277-what-s-missing-layer-b|docs/02-anthropic-vacancies/277-what-s-missing-layer-b.md] (сходство 0.76)
* [06-existing-approximations|docs/nautilus/infrastructure-layer-b-en/06-existing-approximations.md] (сходство 0.24)

