{info:title=Источник}
Сгенерировано из: {{docs/nautilus/infrastructure-layer-b-en/13-acknowledgments-refs.md}}
Дата: 2026-04-29
{info}

h1. Acknowledgments


{quote}> Источник: MHTML‑снимок {{Вакансии в Anthropic по кластерам - Claude}} (корень репозитория). Раздел диалога — paper «Infrastructure for AI-Collaborative Intellectual Work (EN)».{quote}

----


h2. Содержание

* [Acknowledgments|#acknowledgments]
* [References|#references]
  * [Threading and Annotation|#threading-and-annotation]
  * [Knowledge Management|#knowledge-management]
  * [AI Collaboration Infrastructure|#ai-collaboration-infrastructure]
  * [Earlier Companion Documents in This Series|#earlier-companion-documents-in-this-series]
* [Appendix: Position in Series Visualization|#appendix-position-in-series-visualization]

----






{quote}Источник: MHTML‑снимок {{Вакансии в Anthropic по кластерам - Claude}} (корень репозитория). Раздел диалога — paper «Infrastructure for AI-Collaborative Intellectual Work (EN)».{quote}

h2. Acknowledgments

This document emerged from the author's observation, near 
the end of an extended seven-document session, that the chat 
medium was insufficient for the kind of sustained 
intellectual project the documents represented. The 
observation crystallized a problem that had been implicit 
throughout the session but not articulated.

The position of this document in the series — designated 2.3 
rather than 8 — reflects the author's judgment that this 
inquiry document is structurally closer to early architectural 
work (Documents 1-2) than to applied work (Documents 3-7). 
It addresses infrastructure rather than application. The 
fractional numbering preserves the linear sequence of applied 
papers while inserting the infrastructure question where 
it logically belongs.

The author retained editorial authority. The framing, the 
recursive Nautilus possibility, and the practical 
recommendations all originated with the author. Claude 
contributed structure and reference work.

----

h2. References

The references for this document are sparser than for the 
applied papers, because the document is exploratory rather 
than specifying. Key relevant work includes:

h3. Threading and Annotation

* Hypothesis project (https://web.hypothes.is/) — open 
source web annotation
* Discourse forum software (https://www.discourse.org/) — 
modern threaded forum
* Federated Wiki experiments by Ward Cunningham — alternative 
models for collaborative writing

h3. Knowledge Management

* Sönke Ahrens (2017). _How to Take Smart Notes_. Cambridge 
University Press. (Zettelkasten method, foundational for 
modern personal knowledge management.)
* Andy Matuschak (ongoing). Working notes on tools for thought.

h3. AI Collaboration Infrastructure

* Anthropic Projects documentation (current)
* Microsoft Copilot Studio (different approach to similar 
problem)
* Various multi-agent frameworks (LangChain, CrewAI, AutoGen)

h3. Earlier Companion Documents in This Series

Documents 1-7 of the Nautilus / OKWF series, as listed in the 
header of this document.

----

h2. Appendix: Position in Series Visualization

{code}
Document 1: Nautilus Portal Protocol
Technical infrastructure for federation
↓
Document 2: Review Methodology 
How AI agents collaborate on review
↓
[Document 2.3] ← THIS DOCUMENT
Infrastructure for AI-collaborative 
intellectual work — addresses the
meta-question of how Documents 3-7
should be developed and maintained
↓
Document 3: Double-Triangle Architecture
Coordination pattern for human-AI work
↓
Document 4: Open Knowledge Work Foundation
Institutional manifestation
↓
↓
Document 5: Representative Agent Layer Document 6: Professional Colleague Agents
Outward-facing functional category Inward-facing functional category, 
with five-type taxonomy
↓ ↓
└───────────┬───────────────────────────┘
↓
Document 7: Composite Skills Agent
Bridge between Type 1 and Type 4, 
with refined six-type taxonomy
{code}

The position of Document 2.3 is structurally meaningful: it 
addresses infrastructure questions that became visible 
only after the applied work in Documents 3-7 demonstrated 
the inadequacy of the chat medium. But conceptually, it 
belongs early in the series — alongside other infrastructure 
documents.

The 2.3 numbering makes this dual position explicit: 
sequenced after applied work was completed, but conceptually 
placed where infrastructure considerations naturally fit.

----

_Infrastructure for AI-Collaborative Intellectual Work v1.0.0-draft_

_Document 2.3 in the Nautilus / Open Knowledge Work series_

_An inquiry document, not an architectural specification_



----

_Смотрите также:_
* [287-references|docs/02-anthropic-vacancies/287-references.md]
* [286-acknowledgments|docs/02-anthropic-vacancies/286-acknowledgments.md]
* [274-the-missing-middle-layer-between-chat-and-code|docs/02-anthropic-vacancies/274-the-missing-middle-layer-between-chat-and-code.md]
* [01-missing-middle-layer|docs/nautilus/infrastructure-layer-b-en/01-missing-middle-layer.md]




----

_Похожие документы:_
* [287-references|docs/02-anthropic-vacancies/287-references.md] (сходство 0.45)
* [287-references|docs/obsidian/02-anthropic-vacancies/287-references.md] (сходство 0.45)
* [286-acknowledgments|docs/obsidian/02-anthropic-vacancies/286-acknowledgments.md] (сходство 0.41)

