{info:title=Источник}
Сгенерировано из: {{docs/obsidian/nautilus/professional-colleague-agents-en/00-abstract.md}}
Дата: 2026-04-29
{info}

----
title: "Professional Colleague Agents"
tags:
  * rag
  * architecture
  * roadmap
  * anthropic
  * collaboration
  * nautilus
date: 2026-04-29
----

h1. Professional Colleague Agents


{quote}> Источник: MHTML‑снимок {{Вакансии в Anthropic по кластерам - Claude}} (корень репозитория). Раздел диалога — paper «Professional Colleague Agents (EN)», написанный совместно с Claude.{quote}

----





{quote}Источник: MHTML‑снимок {{Вакансии в Anthropic по кластерам - Claude}} (корень репозитория). Раздел диалога — paper «Professional Colleague Agents (EN)», написанный совместно с Claude.{quote}

h1. Professional Colleague Agents
h2. A Typology of AI Agents on the Principal Side and the Case for Profession-Specific Co-Workers

_Companion paper to:_
* Representative Agent Layer v1.0
* Open Knowledge Work Foundation Concept Document v1.0
* Double-Triangle Architecture v1.0
* Nautilus Portal Protocol v1.1

_Version:_ 1.0.0-draft
_Date:_ 2026-04-26
_Author:_ svend4
_Editorial collaboration:_ Claude
_License:_ CC BY 4.0
_Status:_ Working paper, seeking reviewers

----

h2. Abstract

Building on the Representative Agent Layer paper, we observe
that "AI agents on the principal side" is not a single category
but a structured family of at least five distinct types: Personal
AI Assistants, Professional Colleague Agents, Institutional
Agents, Employee Agents, and Representative Agents. Each type
serves a different need, has different economics, requires
different governance, and proceeds at a different pace of
deployment.

This paper develops the Professional Colleague Agent category
in detail. We argue that Professional Colleague Agents are the
_lowest-friction, highest-leverage_ entry point for AI
deployment in skilled professions because they (a) operate
within already-standardized professional contexts, (b) augment
rather than replace the human professional, (c) externalize
no decisions to third parties, (d) replicate across all
practitioners of a profession with one investment, and (e)
relieve burdens that practitioners themselves recognize as
problems.

We document an empirical case study from Russian education
(the "Obuchay" / "Обучай" service, which grew from zero to
93,000 teacher-users in seven months in 2025-2026), develop
formal architecture and design principles, identify specific
risks unique to this category, and propose a deployment
strategy specifically applied to the German social-law domain
relevant to the author's work and to OKWF pilot opportunities.

We argue that Professional Colleague Agents should be the
_first production deployment_ of foundation-funded AI
infrastructure, with Representative Agents as a second-phase
extension once professionals have integrated AI partners into
their daily work.

----

h2. Table of Contents

1. _The Five-Type Typology of Principal-Side Agents_
2. _What Makes a Professional Colleague Agent_
3. _Empirical Case Study: «Обучай»_
4. _Architecture of Professional Colleague Agents_
5. _The Economics of Profession-Wide Replication_
6. _Risks Specific to this Category_
7. _Application Domains_
8. _Pilot Proposal: SGB Advocate Colleague_
9. _Relationship to Other Agent Types_
10. _Open Questions_
11. _Call for Collaboration_

----



----

_Похожие документы:_
* [[210-abstract]] (сходство 0.72)
* [[210-abstract]] (сходство 0.68)
* [[12-closing]] (сходство 0.31)

