{info:title=Источник}
Сгенерировано из: {{docs/nautilus/representative-agent-layer-en/00-abstract.md}}
Дата: 2026-04-29
{info}

h1. AI-Mediated Representation for Underrepresented Experts and Vulnerable Populations


{quote}> Источник: MHTML‑снимок {{Вакансии в Anthropic по кластерам - Claude}} (корень репозитория). Раздел диалога — paper «Representative Agent Layer (EN)».{quote}

----





{quote}Источник: MHTML‑снимок {{Вакансии в Anthropic по кластерам - Claude}} (корень репозитория). Раздел диалога — paper «Representative Agent Layer (EN)».{quote}

h1. The Representative Agent Layer
h2. AI-Mediated Representation for Underrepresented Experts and Vulnerable Populations

_Companion paper to:_
* Open Knowledge Work Foundation Concept Document v1.0
* Double-Triangle Architecture v1.0
* Nautilus Portal Protocol v1.1

_Version:_ 1.0.0-draft 
_Date:_ 2026-04-19 
_Author:_ svend4 
_Editorial collaboration:_ Claude 
_License:_ CC BY 4.0 
_Status:_ Working paper, seeking reviewers and collaborators

----

h2. Abstract

We introduce the _Representative Agent Layer_ — an architectural 
pattern in which AI systems serve as proactive representatives 
for individuals or groups who lack the capacity, resources, or 
inclination to represent themselves in attention markets. 
Building on the Double-Triangle Architecture and OKWF 
infrastructure proposals, we extend the concept of personal AI 
assistants from _work execution helpers_ to **market navigation 
advocates** that handle visibility, opportunity discovery, 
negotiation, and protection on behalf of their human principals.

We identify ten distinct categories of populations and contexts 
where Representative Agents have transformative potential, 
ranging from highly-qualified invisible experts (the original 
motivating case) to social workers managing welfare recipients, 
caregivers managing dependents, small business owners managing 
customer relations, and citizens navigating bureaucratic 
institutions. Each category exhibits the same structural 
problem: **gap between value created or held and capacity to 
make that value visible to relevant counterparties**.

We propose architectural specifications, ethical commitments, 
governance structures, and rollout pathways. We argue that 
Representative Agents constitute a **new category of AI 
infrastructure** distinct from existing personal assistants 
(which serve work execution) and multi-agent systems (which 
replace humans). This infrastructure is technically feasible 
today, economically viable through foundation models or 
shared-cost structures, and morally urgent given growing 
information asymmetries in modern attention economies.

This paper invites collaboration on architecture, deployments, 
and governance from researchers, practitioners, social 
service organizations, civil society, and policymakers.

----

h2. Table of Contents

1. _The Cinderella Syndrome: Why Quality Stays Invisible_
2. _Historical Precedents: Agents as Civilizational Innovation_
3. _What Makes a Representative Agent_
4. _Ten Domains of Application_
5. _Architectural Specification_
6. _Ethical Framework_
7. _Governance and Oversight_
8. _Risks and Mitigations_
9. _Phased Rollout Strategy_
10. _Open Questions_
11. _Call for Collaboration_

----



----

_Похожие документы:_
* [168-abstract|docs/obsidian/02-anthropic-vacancies/168-abstract.md] (сходство 0.67)
* [168-abstract|docs/02-anthropic-vacancies/168-abstract.md] (сходство 0.64)
* [00-abstract|docs/nautilus/professional-colleague-agents-en/00-abstract.md] (сходство 0.27)

