{info:title=Источник}
Сгенерировано из: {{docs/nautilus/representative-agent-layer-en/03-what-makes-representative-agent.md}}
Дата: 2026-04-29
{info}

h1. 3. What Makes a Representative Agent


{quote}> Источник: MHTML‑снимок {{Вакансии в Anthropic по кластерам - Claude}} (корень репозитория). Раздел диалога — paper «Representative Agent Layer (EN)».{quote}

----


h2. Содержание

* [3. What Makes a Representative Agent|#3-what-makes-a-representative-agent]
  * [3.1. Three-Layer Distinction|#31-three-layer-distinction]
  * [3.2. Five Core Functions|#32-five-core-functions]
  * [3.3. What Distinguishes from Generic Personal AI Assistants|#33-what-distinguishes-from-generic-personal-ai-assistants]
  * [3.4. The Principal-Agent Relationship|#34-the-principal-agent-relationship]

----






{quote}Источник: MHTML‑снимок {{Вакансии в Anthropic по кластерам - Claude}} (корень репозитория). Раздел диалога — paper «Representative Agent Layer (EN)».{quote}

h2. 3. What Makes a Representative Agent

A Representative Agent is distinct from existing AI categories. 
We define it precisely.

h3. 3.1. Three-Layer Distinction

_Layer 1 — Personal AI Assistants_ (current state of art): 
Examples: Cursor, Claude Code, Copilot, ChatGPT. 
Function: Help user execute tasks they've decided to do. 
Direction: User → AI ("do this for me"). 
Locus of agency: User. 
Goal: Productivity multiplication on chosen tasks.

_Layer 2 — Multi-Agent Systems_ (current research/prototype): 
Examples: MetaGPT, AutoGen, ChatDev, CrewAI. 
Function: AI agents collaborate among themselves to complete 
complex tasks. 
Direction: AI → AI. 
Locus of agency: System designer. 
Goal: Automation of multi-step processes.

_Layer 3 — Representative Agents_ (proposed): 
Examples: None in production yet. 
Function: AI proactively represents user in markets and 
relationships. 
Direction: AI → World on behalf of user. 
Locus of agency: User delegates strategically. 
Goal: Access to opportunities user cannot reach alone.

h3. 3.2. Five Core Functions

A Representative Agent performs five interlocking functions:

_Function 1 — Discovery._ Continuously monitors relevant 
domains for opportunities matching the principal's profile. 
This includes: job postings, project announcements, 
collaboration requests, grant calls, regulatory deadlines, 
relationship opportunities. Acts as a _proactive scout_.

_Function 2 — Curation._ Filters discovered opportunities 
against principal's actual fit, capacity, and preferences. 
Prevents principal from being overwhelmed. Surfaces only 
high-relevance opportunities. Acts as a _filter and ranker_.

_Function 3 — Presentation._ Crafts presentations of the 
principal to relevant counterparties. This includes: 
applications, profiles, introductions, proposals. Translates 
the principal's value into language counterparties understand. 
Acts as a _translator and advocate_.

_Function 4 — Negotiation._ Engages in initial conversations 
with counterparties on behalf of the principal. Handles 
clarification, basic terms, scheduling. Surfaces complex 
decisions to the principal for human judgment. Acts as a 
_buffer and intermediary_.

_Function 5 — Protection._ Identifies risks, scams, 
exploitation, mismatched commitments. Prevents the principal 
from harm or overextension. Acts as a **gatekeeper and 
guardian**.

h3. 3.3. What Distinguishes from Generic Personal AI Assistants

A Representative Agent has properties that current personal 
AI assistants do not:

_Persistent operation_: Runs continuously, not session-based. 
Monitoring opportunities is 24/7 work.

_External interaction_: Communicates with parties beyond 
the principal. Most current assistants only communicate 
with the user.

_Strategic autonomy_: Makes decisions about what to surface 
to user vs. handle independently. Current assistants execute 
explicit user requests.

_Long-term relationship modeling_: Maintains models of 
principal's career arc, evolving preferences, life context. 
Current assistants have limited memory.

_Adversarial awareness_: Operates in environments where 
other parties may have conflicting interests. Current 
assistants generally assume cooperative environments.

_Mission alignment_: Operates within explicit ethical and 
strategic framework set by principal. Current assistants 
optimize for engagement or task completion.

h3. 3.4. The Principal-Agent Relationship

Representative Agents introduce a classic **principal-agent 
relationship** familiar from economics, law, and political 
science. The principal (the human) delegates to the agent 
(the AI). Key questions:

* What is delegated? What remains with principal?
* What constrains agent behavior?
* How does principal monitor agent?
* What recourse if agent misbehaves?

These questions have well-developed answers in human 
principal-agent contexts. Adapting them to AI principals is 
a key research and design challenge addressed in Sections 6 
and 7.

----



----

_Смотрите также:_
* [172-3-what-makes-a-representative-agent|docs/02-anthropic-vacancies/172-3-what-makes-a-representative-agent.md]
* [05-architectural-specification|docs/nautilus/representative-agent-layer-en/05-architectural-specification.md]
* [174-5-architectural-specification|docs/02-anthropic-vacancies/174-5-architectural-specification.md]
* [01-five-type-typology|docs/nautilus/professional-colleague-agents-en/01-five-type-typology.md]




----

_Похожие документы:_
* [172-3-what-makes-a-representative-agent|docs/obsidian/02-anthropic-vacancies/172-3-what-makes-a-representative-agent.md] (сходство 0.90)
* [172-3-what-makes-a-representative-agent|docs/02-anthropic-vacancies/172-3-what-makes-a-representative-agent.md] (сходство 0.83)
* [05-architectural-specification|docs/nautilus/representative-agent-layer-en/05-architectural-specification.md] (сходство 0.24)

