{info:title=Источник}
Сгенерировано из: {{docs/nautilus/representative-agent-layer-en/05-architectural-specification.md}}
Дата: 2026-04-29
{info}

h1. 5. Architectural Specification


{quote}> Источник: MHTML‑снимок {{Вакансии в Anthropic по кластерам - Claude}} (корень репозитория). Раздел диалога — paper «Representative Agent Layer (EN)».{quote}

----


h2. Содержание

* [5. Architectural Specification|#5-architectural-specification]
  * [5.1. Core Components|#51-core-components]
  * [5.2. Operating Principles|#52-operating-principles]
  * [5.3. Technical Stack|#53-technical-stack]
  * [5.4. Integration with Double-Triangle Architecture|#54-integration-with-double-triangle-architecture]

----






{quote}Источник: MHTML‑снимок {{Вакансии в Anthropic по кластерам - Claude}} (корень репозитория). Раздел диалога — paper «Representative Agent Layer (EN)».{quote}

h2. 5. Architectural Specification

h3. 5.1. Core Components

A Representative Agent system consists of seven components:

_Component 1 — Principal Profile_: Comprehensive 
representation of the principal's expertise, capacity, 
preferences, history, goals, constraints. Constructed 
through onboarding interview, refined through ongoing 
interaction. Owned by principal, modifiable by principal.

_Component 2 — Discovery Engine_: Continuously monitors 
relevant domains for opportunities. Sources include: 
public job boards, RSS feeds, partner systems, peer 
networks, regulatory announcements. Outputs a stream of 
candidate opportunities.

_Component 3 — Curation Filter_: Evaluates each 
opportunity against profile fit, capacity match, 
preference alignment. Outputs ranked shortlist. 
Conservative by default — better to surface fewer high-fit 
opportunities than overwhelm.

_Component 4 — Presentation Generator_: Crafts 
counterparty-appropriate presentations of the principal 
when relevant opportunity is found. Translates principal's 
value into target's language. Preserves principal's voice 
where possible.

_Component 5 — Communication Manager_: Handles ongoing 
correspondence with counterparties. Initial outreach, 
clarification, scheduling. Surfaces complex decisions to 
principal. Operates within bounds set by principal.

_Component 6 — Protection Monitor_: Identifies risks, 
inconsistencies, scams, exploitation. Alerts principal to 
warning signs. Maintains skeptical posture toward 
counterparties.

_Component 7 — Audit Log_: Comprehensive record of all 
agent decisions and communications. Enables principal 
review, dispute resolution, accountability.

h3. 5.2. Operating Principles

Six principles govern agent behavior:

_Principle 1 — Principal Authority_: Final authority on 
all consequential decisions remains with principal. Agent 
recommends, principal decides.

_Principle 2 — Transparent Operation_: All agent actions 
are visible to principal upon request. No hidden actions 
or communications.

_Principle 3 — Conservative Default_: When uncertain, 
agent surfaces decision to principal rather than acting 
independently. Better to over-consult than overstep.

_Principle 4 — Loyalty_: Agent serves only principal's 
interests. No conflicts of interest with platforms, 
counterparties, or third parties.

_Principle 5 — Capability Honesty_: Agent acknowledges 
limits of its capabilities. When complexity exceeds 
agent capability, agent escalates to human professional.

_Principle 6 — Reversibility_: All agent actions are 
reversible to extent possible. Principal can override, 
withdraw, modify any agent decision.

h3. 5.3. Technical Stack

_Large Language Models_: Foundation for natural language 
understanding, generation, communication. Multiple model 
support (Claude, GPT, local models like Qwen) for 
redundancy and choice.

_Persistent Memory_: Long-term storage of profile, 
history, relationships. Vector databases for semantic 
retrieval. Structured data for transactional records.

_Federation Protocol_: Standard interfaces for agents 
to interact with external systems and other agents. 
Nautilus Portal Protocol provides foundation.

_Encryption and Access Control_: All sensitive data 
encrypted at rest and in transit. Granular permissions 
for what agent can access in principal's data.

_Audit Infrastructure_: Tamper-resistant logging of 
all agent actions for accountability.

_User Interface_: Multi-modal access (web, mobile, 
voice) appropriate to principal's accessibility needs. 
Particularly important for elderly, disabled, or 
technology-unfamiliar principals.

h3. 5.4. Integration with Double-Triangle Architecture

Representative Agents operate at the **boundary between 
Lower Triangle and outside world** in Double-Triangle 
Architecture. They are:

* Owned by Node (principal)
* Distinct from Node's task-execution assistants
* Interact with Meta-agents and external systems
* Represent Node's interests in those interactions

In Star of David topology, the Representative Agent is 
the _outer boundary_ of the Lower Triangle — the layer 
that touches the world beyond the personal context.

----



----

_Смотрите также:_
* [174-5-architectural-specification|docs/02-anthropic-vacancies/174-5-architectural-specification.md]
* [03-what-makes-representative-agent|docs/nautilus/representative-agent-layer-en/03-what-makes-representative-agent.md]
* [172-3-what-makes-a-representative-agent|docs/02-anthropic-vacancies/172-3-what-makes-a-representative-agent.md]
* [06-ethical-framework|docs/nautilus/representative-agent-layer-en/06-ethical-framework.md]




----

_Похожие документы:_
* [174-5-architectural-specification|docs/obsidian/02-anthropic-vacancies/174-5-architectural-specification.md] (сходство 0.90)
* [174-5-architectural-specification|docs/02-anthropic-vacancies/174-5-architectural-specification.md] (сходство 0.84)
* [03-what-makes-representative-agent|docs/nautilus/representative-agent-layer-en/03-what-makes-representative-agent.md] (сходство 0.24)

