{info:title=Источник}
Сгенерировано из: {{docs/nautilus/representative-agent-layer-en/07-governance-oversight.md}}
Дата: 2026-04-29
{info}

h1. 7. Governance and Oversight


{quote}> Источник: MHTML‑снимок {{Вакансии в Anthropic по кластерам - Claude}} (корень репозитория). Раздел диалога — paper «Representative Agent Layer (EN)».{quote}

----





{quote}Источник: MHTML‑снимок {{Вакансии в Anthropic по кластерам - Claude}} (корень репозитория). Раздел диалога — paper «Representative Agent Layer (EN)».{quote}

h2. 7. Governance and Oversight

h3. 7.1. Three Levels of Governance

Effective Representative Agent systems require governance 
at three levels:

_Individual Level_: Each principal-agent relationship 
governed by clear contract. Default templates, customizable 
by principal. Specifies scope, limits, consent, audit, 
termination.

_Platform Level_: System-wide policies for all agents 
operating on platform. Includes ethical commitments, 
technical standards, dispute resolution, transparency 
requirements.

_Societal Level_: Regulatory frameworks at national/EU 
level. Likely to emerge over time as technology matures. 
Should aim for: protection of vulnerable populations, 
prevention of exploitation, preservation of principal 
sovereignty, accountability for agent failures.

h3. 7.2. Audit and Accountability

Every Representative Agent platform must support:

* _Internal audit_: Principal reviews agent actions
* _External audit_: Independent review of platform 
practices
* _Public audit_: Transparency reports on aggregate 
behavior
* _Legal audit_: Cooperation with regulatory inquiries

Audit logs must be tamper-resistant, comprehensive, 
preserved for adequate periods (probably 7-10 years 
minimum), and accessible to principals on request.

h3. 7.3. Dispute Resolution

When agent operations cause harm or disputes:

_First level_: Principal-platform direct resolution 
(refund, correction, restoration)

_Second level_: Independent ombudsman within platform

_Third level_: External arbitration

_Fourth level_: Regulatory complaint or legal action

Each level should have clear timelines and standards.

h3. 7.4. Vulnerable Population Protection

Special governance for vulnerable populations:

* _Independent advocate review_ of agent setup for 
cognitively impaired principals
* _Periodic capacity assessment_ for elderly principals
* _Family/guardian involvement_ with appropriate consent
* _Specialized oversight committees_ for high-risk 
domains (children, severely disabled, mental health)

h3. 7.5. Foundation-Based Governance

A foundation model (such as OKWF) is well-positioned to 
provide governance because:

* _Mission alignment_: Foundation accountable to 
beneficiaries, not shareholders
* _Long-term horizon_: Foundation incentives align with 
durable value, not quarterly metrics
* _Transparency norm_: Foundation operations expected to 
be public
* _Multi-stakeholder governance_: Boards include 
beneficiary representatives

For-profit Representative Agent providers may be necessary 
and useful but should operate within standards established 
by mission-driven foundations.

----



----

_Смотрите также:_
* [176-7-governance-and-oversight|docs/02-anthropic-vacancies/176-7-governance-and-oversight.md]
* [06-ethical-framework|docs/nautilus/representative-agent-layer-en/06-ethical-framework.md]
* [05-architectural-specification|docs/nautilus/representative-agent-layer-en/05-architectural-specification.md]
* [09-phased-rollout|docs/nautilus/representative-agent-layer-en/09-phased-rollout.md]




----

_Похожие документы:_
* [176-7-governance-and-oversight|docs/02-anthropic-vacancies/176-7-governance-and-oversight.md] (сходство 0.86)
* [176-7-governance-and-oversight|docs/obsidian/02-anthropic-vacancies/176-7-governance-and-oversight.md] (сходство 0.82)
* [06-ethical-framework|docs/nautilus/representative-agent-layer-en/06-ethical-framework.md] (сходство 0.20)

