{info:title=Источник}
Сгенерировано из: {{docs/nautilus/representative-agent-layer-en/09-phased-rollout.md}}
Дата: 2026-04-29
{info}

h1. 9. Phased Rollout Strategy


{quote}> Источник: MHTML‑снимок {{Вакансии в Anthropic по кластерам - Claude}} (корень репозитория). Раздел диалога — paper «Representative Agent Layer (EN)».{quote}

----





{quote}Источник: MHTML‑снимок {{Вакансии в Anthropic по кластерам - Claude}} (корень репозитория). Раздел диалога — paper «Representative Agent Layer (EN)».{quote}

h2. 9. Phased Rollout Strategy

A responsible deployment of Representative Agent technology 
proceeds in five phases.

h3. 9.1. Phase 0 — Foundation (Months 1-12)

_Activities_:
* Establish governance framework
* Recruit founding principal cohort (50-100 individuals)
* Build core technical infrastructure
* Develop initial agent for one domain (recommend Domain 
1: Knowledge Workers)
* Pilot deployment with small group

_Success criteria_:
* Working reference implementation
* Pilot principals report meaningful benefit
* No major ethical or safety incidents
* Funding secured for Phase 1

h3. 9.2. Phase 1 — Single Domain Maturation (Year 2)

_Activities_:
* Scale Phase 0 domain to 1,000+ principals
* Refine agent capabilities through user feedback
* Establish operational procedures
* Document learnings for replication
* Begin initial work on second domain

_Success criteria_:
* Stable platform serving 1,000+ principals
* Measurable positive outcomes
* Sustainable operational model
* Regulatory dialogue established

h3. 9.3. Phase 2 — Domain Expansion (Years 3-4)

_Activities_:
* Add domains 2 (retired professionals) and 8 (students) 
— both relatively low-risk extensions
* Begin pilot work in domain 3 (social workers) with 
partner organization
* International expansion (initially to one additional 
country/language)

_Success criteria_:
* 10,000+ principals across 3-4 domains
* First international deployment functional
* Partnership with established social services 
organization

h3. 9.4. Phase 3 — High-Stakes Domain Deployment (Years 4-6)

_Activities_:
* Domain 4 (vulnerable citizens navigating bureaucracy) 
with intensive partnership with legal aid organizations
* Domain 5 (caregivers) with health system partners
* Increased regulatory engagement
* Independent academic study of outcomes

_Success criteria_:
* Demonstrable improvement in access for vulnerable 
populations
* Regulatory frameworks adapted appropriately
* Academic literature documents pattern

h3. 9.5. Phase 4 — Mature Infrastructure (Year 6+)

_Activities_:
* All ten domains in some level of deployment
* Multiple platforms competing within standards 
framework
* Established field of research and practice
* Influence on policy and regulation

_Success criteria_:
* Representative Agents are accepted infrastructure
* Beneficial outcomes for millions of previously 
underrepresented people
* Healthy ecosystem of providers within ethical 
framework

h3. 9.6. Pace Considerations

This rollout is _deliberately conservative_. Faster 
deployment is technically possible but risks:

* Premature promises that erode trust when broken
* Ethical missteps that trigger restrictive regulation
* Platform dynamics that exclude vulnerable populations
* Loss of mission focus to commercial pressures

Slow, careful deployment is more likely to result in 
durable, beneficial infrastructure than rapid scaling.

----



----

_Смотрите также:_
* [178-9-phased-rollout-strategy|docs/02-anthropic-vacancies/178-9-phased-rollout-strategy.md]
* [07-phased-rollout|docs/nautilus/okwf-concept/07-phased-rollout.md]
* [11-call-for-collaboration|docs/nautilus/representative-agent-layer-en/11-call-for-collaboration.md]
* [08-pilot-sgb-advocate|docs/nautilus/professional-colleague-agents-en/08-pilot-sgb-advocate.md]




----

_Похожие документы:_
* [178-9-phased-rollout-strategy|docs/02-anthropic-vacancies/178-9-phased-rollout-strategy.md] (сходство 0.86)
* [178-9-phased-rollout-strategy|docs/obsidian/02-anthropic-vacancies/178-9-phased-rollout-strategy.md] (сходство 0.85)
* [07-phased-rollout|docs/nautilus/okwf-concept/07-phased-rollout.md] (сходство 0.22)

