{info:title=Источник}
Сгенерировано из: {{docs/nautilus/double-triangle-architecture/00-abstract.md}}
Дата: 2026-04-29
{info}

h1. Abstract — The Double-Triangle Architecture


{quote}> Источник: MHTML‑снимок {{Вакансии в Anthropic по кластерам - Claude}} (корень репозитория). Раздел диалога — paper «The Double-Triangle Architecture for Human-AI Collaboration».{quote}

----





{quote}Источник: MHTML‑снимок {{Вакансии в Anthropic по кластерам - Claude}} (корень репозитория). Раздел диалога — paper «The Double-Triangle Architecture for Human-AI Collaboration».{quote}

h1. The Double-Triangle Architecture 
h2. A Formal Model for Human-AI Collaboration in Distributed Knowledge Work

_Draft:_ v1.0.0-draft 
_Date:_ 2026-04-19 
_Author:_ svend4 
_Editorial review:_ Claude (intellectual collaboration, 2026-04) 
_License:_ CC BY 4.0 
_Status:_ Working paper, seeking reviewers

----

h2. Abstract

We introduce the _Double-Triangle Architecture_ for human-AI 
collaboration in distributed knowledge work. The central thesis: 
each human participant in modern AI-assisted workflows 
simultaneously occupies two roles — as _conductor_ of personal 
AI assistants (lower triangle, directed downward from human to 
assistants), and as _performer_ coordinated by higher-level 
meta-agents (upper triangle, directed upward from human toward 
team-level coordination). These two triangles superimpose to form 
a six-pointed star topology, which we argue is the correct 
architectural primitive for the next generation of AI-managed 
knowledge work.

Existing systems implement only one triangle: personal assistants 
(Cursor, Copilot, ChatGPT) operate in the lower triangle only; 
multi-agent frameworks (CrewAI, MetaGPT, AutoGen) operate in the 
upper triangle only and typically replace humans rather than 
augment them. Neither paradigm captures the full structure of how 
humans will actually work alongside AI over the next decade.

We present three contributions:

1. _Formal specification_ of the Double-Triangle Architecture, 
including three inter-layer protocols and six architectural 
invariants
2. _Reference implementation_ via _Nautilus Portal Protocol_ 
(NPP v1.1), which provides the federated knowledge substrate 
required to support the architecture
3. _Deployment paths_ for four concrete domains: humanities 
(legal/medical/social), project management, open-source 
development, and generic knowledge work

We also present empirical evidence from a 4-month single-person 
AI-assisted deployment producing 6,782 lines of production code 
across 13 adapters, a formal protocol specification, REST API, 
SDK, Docker containerization, and 60 passing tests — suggesting 
that _single-person operations can achieve team-level output_ 
when the Double-Triangle substrate is properly instantiated.

We conclude with open questions on governance, consent, economics, 
and burnout dynamics, and invite research collaboration on these 
unsolved issues.

----

h2. Table of Contents

1. _Why Single-Triangle Models Are Incomplete_
2. _The Double-Triangle Architecture_
3. _Three Inter-Layer Protocols_
4. _Nautilus Portal as Reference Substrate_
5. _Pattern Library as Bridge Between Triangles_
6. _Four Deployment Domains_
7. _Open Questions_
8. _Call to Action_

----



----

_Похожие документы:_
* [136-abstract|docs/obsidian/02-anthropic-vacancies/136-abstract.md] (сходство 0.82)
* [136-abstract|docs/02-anthropic-vacancies/136-abstract.md] (сходство 0.77)
* [01-why-single-triangle-incomplete|docs/nautilus/double-triangle-architecture/01-why-single-triangle-incomplete.md] (сходство 0.25)

