{info:title=Источник}
Сгенерировано из: {{docs/nautilus/double-triangle-architecture/09-acknowledgments.md}}
Дата: 2026-04-29
{info}

h1. Acknowledgments

{quote}[!TIP]{quote}
{quote}Документ содержит практические рекомендации и лучшие практики.{quote}




{quote}> Источник: MHTML‑снимок {{Вакансии в Anthropic по кластерам - Claude}} (корень репозитория). Раздел диалога — paper «The Double-Triangle Architecture for Human-AI Collaboration».{quote}

----





{quote}Источник: MHTML‑снимок {{Вакансии в Anthropic по кластерам - Claude}} (корень репозитория). Раздел диалога — paper «The Double-Triangle Architecture for Human-AI Collaboration».{quote}

h2. Acknowledgments

This work emerged through extensive collaboration with Anthropic's 
Claude (primarily Claude Opus 4.7) across multiple sessions in 
2026. Specific contributions include: formalization of Nautilus 
Portal Protocol, three-phase review methodology, pattern library 
architecture analysis, humanities extension design. The author 
integrated, directed, and retained final authority throughout.

This dependency on AI assistance is not a footnote but a core 
observation: the Double-Triangle Architecture is the emerging 
pattern of its own construction. This paper was written by one 
human working with multiple AI assistants, which is exactly the 
lower triangle it describes. The paper's existence is itself 
evidence of the architecture's viability at individual scale.

No external funding supported this work. No external reviewers 
participated in v1.0 draft. Future drafts will seek external 
review.

----



----

_Смотрите также:_
* [146-acknowledgments|docs/02-anthropic-vacancies/146-acknowledgments.md]
* [08-difference-3-federation-missing|docs/anthropic-vacancies/hermes-comparison/08-difference-3-federation-missing.md]
* [148-appendix-a-glossary|docs/02-anthropic-vacancies/148-appendix-a-glossary.md]
* [17-appendix-b-change-log|docs/nautilus/npp-v1-0/17-appendix-b-change-log.md]




----

_Похожие документы:_
* [146-acknowledgments|docs/obsidian/02-anthropic-vacancies/146-acknowledgments.md] (сходство 0.64)
* [146-acknowledgments|docs/02-anthropic-vacancies/146-acknowledgments.md] (сходство 0.60)
* [08-difference-3-federation-missing|docs/anthropic-vacancies/hermes-comparison/08-difference-3-federation-missing.md] (сходство 0.23)

