{info:title=Источник}
Сгенерировано из: {{docs/nautilus/double-triangle-architecture/10-references.md}}
Дата: 2026-04-29
{info}

h1. References


{quote}> Источник: MHTML‑снимок {{Вакансии в Anthropic по кластерам - Claude}} (корень репозитория). Раздел диалога — paper «The Double-Triangle Architecture for Human-AI Collaboration».{quote}

----





{quote}Источник: MHTML‑снимок {{Вакансии в Anthropic по кластерам - Claude}} (корень репозитория). Раздел диалога — paper «The Double-Triangle Architecture for Human-AI Collaboration».{quote}

h2. References

h3. Foundational Sources

* Conway, M. E. (1968). "How do committees invent?" _Datamation_. 
* Brooks, F. P. (1975). _The Mythical Man-Month_. 
* Raymond, E. S. (1999). _The Cathedral and the Bazaar_. 
* Weinberg, G. M. (1971). _The Psychology of Computer Programming_. 

h3. Multi-Agent Systems

* Wooldridge, M. (2009). _An Introduction to MultiAgent Systems_. 
* Russell, S., & Norvig, P. (2020). _Artificial Intelligence: A Modern Approach_, 4th ed. 
* Hong, S., et al. (2023). "MetaGPT: Meta Programming for A Multi-Agent Collaborative Framework". _arXiv:2308.00352_. 

h3. Protocols and Federation

* Fielding, R. T. (2000). "Architectural Styles and the Design of Network-based Software Architectures". UC Irvine dissertation. 
* W3C (2018). _ActivityPub_. W3C Recommendation. 
* Anthropic (2024). _Model Context Protocol Specification_. 

h3. Human-AI Collaboration

* Shneiderman, B. (2022). _Human-Centered AI_. 
* Amershi, S., et al. (2019). "Guidelines for Human-AI Interaction". _CHI '19_. 

h3. Related Architectures

* Chen, L., & Avizienis, A. (1978). "N-Version Programming: A Fault-Tolerance Approach". _FTCS-8_. 
* Berners-Lee, T. (2019). _Solid: Re-decentralizing the Web_. 

h3. Pattern Libraries

* Alexander, C. (1977). _A Pattern Language_. 
* Gamma, E., et al. (1994). _Design Patterns: Elements of Reusable Object-Oriented Software_. 

h3. Primary Reference

* svend4 (2026). _Nautilus Portal Protocol v1.1 Specification_. 
[github.com/svend4/nautilus/blob/main/PORTAL-PROTOCOL.md|https://github.com/svend4/nautilus/blob/main/PORTAL-PROTOCOL.md] 
* svend4 (2026). _Review Methodology: Three-Phase Consolidation_. 
[github.com/svend4/nautilus/blob/main/REVIEW_METHODOLOGY.md|https://github.com/svend4/nautilus/blob/main/REVIEW_METHODOLOGY.md] 

----



----

_Смотрите также:_
* [147-references|docs/02-anthropic-vacancies/147-references.md]
* [11-dhlab-documents|docs/lorenzo-agent/11-dhlab-documents.md]
* [09-acknowledgments|docs/nautilus/double-triangle-architecture/09-acknowledgments.md]
* [13-reference-implementation|docs/nautilus/npp-v1-0/13-reference-implementation.md]




----

_Похожие документы:_
* [147-references|docs/02-anthropic-vacancies/147-references.md] (сходство 0.74)
* [147-references|docs/obsidian/02-anthropic-vacancies/147-references.md] (сходство 0.70)
* [11-dhlab-documents|docs/lorenzo-agent/11-dhlab-documents.md] (сходство 0.19)

