{info:title=Источник}
Сгенерировано из: {{docs/obsidian/nautilus/ingit-cowork-en/04-symbiotic-architecture.md}}
Дата: 2026-04-29
{info}

----
title: "4. The Symbiotic Architecture"
tags:
  * nautilus
date: 2026-04-29
----

h1. 4. The Symbiotic Architecture


{quote}> Источник: MHTML‑снимок {{Вакансии в Anthropic по кластерам - Claude}} (корень репозитория). Раздел диалога — paper «InGit + Cowork (EN)».{quote}

----


h2. Содержание

* [4. The Symbiotic Architecture|#4-the-symbiotic-architecture]
  * [4.1. Layer Decomposition|#41-layer-decomposition]
  * [4.2. How They Interact|#42-how-they-interact]
  * [4.3. Where Each Operates|#43-where-each-operates]
  * [4.4. Shared State|#44-shared-state]

----






{quote}Источник: MHTML‑снимок {{Вакансии в Anthropic по кластерам - Claude}} (корень репозитория). Раздел диалога — paper «InGit + Cowork (EN)».{quote}

h2. 4. The Symbiotic Architecture

The combination of InGit and Cowork creates an architecture 
neither alone provides.

h3. 4.1. Layer Decomposition

Working from substrate up:

{code}
LAYER 0 — Hardware and OS
Local computer, optionally NAS
↓
LAYER 1 — File System
Operating system file storage
↓
LAYER 2 — InGit Substrate
Structured folders (00_inbox through 90_exports)
YAML metadata schemas
Git-native versioning conventions
Validation hooks
Encryption for sensitive folders
↓
LAYER 3 — Cowork Agent
Persistent memory scoped to Project
Multi-step task execution
MCP connector integration
Computer use capability
Scheduled recurring tasks
↓
LAYER 4 — User and External Tools
User direct interaction with files
External services (GitHub, Notion, etc.)
Other AI tools when needed
Other team members (limited; Cowork is local)
{code}

Each layer has clear responsibilities. Each layer provides 
abstractions to layers above.

h3. 4.2. How They Interact

A typical workflow combines them:

_1. User opens Cowork Project pointing at InGit folder._

_2. User states intent_: "Write a draft section on X based 
on existing materials."

_3. Cowork agent begins_:
* Reads InGit Project structure (knows convention)
* Searches {{80_wiki/}} for relevant existing knowledge
* Reads referenced documents in {{30_documents/}}
* Drafts new content following InGit document template
* Adds appropriate YAML metadata
* Validates through InGit MCP server (if configured) or 
inline
* Saves to appropriate location
* Updates timeline in {{20_timeline/}} if convention requires
* Commits with conventional commit message

_4. User reviews_:
* Sees draft in correct location
* Reviews metadata
* Approves or requests revisions

_5. Iteration continues_ with Cowork remembering context 
between sessions.

This is fundamentally different from either:
* Chat alone: no persistence beyond chat, no structure
* Cowork alone with generic folder: no structure conventions
* InGit alone: no agent intelligence

h3. 4.3. Where Each Operates

InGit Substrate operates whenever:
* Files are read or written
* Git operations occur
* Validation runs
* Encryption applies
* Structure conventions enforced

Cowork Agent operates whenever:
* Multi-step tasks execute
* AI synthesis happens
* External services accessed
* Memory recalled
* Scheduled tasks run

User operates whenever:
* Intent expressed
* Outputs reviewed
* Decisions made
* Direct edits performed
* Strategy set

The three operate concurrently. None requires the others' 
constant presence (offline operation continues without Cowork; 
Cowork can work with non-InGit folders; user delegates to 
both).

h3. 4.4. Shared State

Critical implementation point: shared state between InGit and 
Cowork must be _deterministic and recoverable_.

_Determinism_: Given the same project state and same Cowork 
instructions, results should be predictable. Validation 
prevents Cowork from creating malformed artifacts.

_Recoverability_: All state lives in files (Git tracked). 
Even if Cowork session is lost, Project state recoverable from 
filesystem. Memory can be rebuilt by replaying Git history 
through Cowork.

This is why Git-native is important: Git provides authoritative 
state. Cowork memory is convenience, not authority.

----



----

_Смотрите также:_
* [[312-4-the-symbiotic-architecture]]
* [[03-ingit-provides]]
* [[02-cowork-provides]]
* [[311-3-what-ingit-provides-that-cowork-lacks]]




----

_Похожие документы:_
* [[312-4-the-symbiotic-architecture]] (сходство 0.86)
* [[312-4-the-symbiotic-architecture]] (сходство 0.83)
* [[03-ingit-provides]] (сходство 0.23)

