{info:title=Источник}
Сгенерировано из: {{docs/obsidian/nautilus/ingit-cowork-en/06-refined-ingit-scope.md}}
Дата: 2026-04-29
{info}

----
title: "6. Refined InGit Scope with Cowork in Mind"
tags:
  * architecture
  * roadmap
  * anthropic
  * nautilus
date: 2026-04-29
----

h1. 6. Refined InGit Scope with Cowork in Mind


{quote}> Источник: MHTML‑снимок {{Вакансии в Anthropic по кластерам - Claude}} (корень репозитория). Раздел диалога — paper «InGit + Cowork (EN)».{quote}

----





{quote}Источник: MHTML‑снимок {{Вакансии в Anthropic по кластерам - Claude}} (корень репозитория). Раздел диалога — paper «InGit + Cowork (EN)».{quote}

h2. 6. Refined InGit Scope with Cowork in Mind

The original InGit roadmap (10-16 months to v1.0) reflected 
ambition for full standalone product. With Cowork as 
complement, scope can dramatically reduce.

h3. 6.1. New Phase 1 (Months 1-3): Substrate MVP

_Goal_: InGit becomes usable as Cowork substrate.

_Deliverables_:
* Folder structure conventions (already in repository)
* YAML metadata schemas for tasks, documents, wiki pages
* Pre-commit hooks for validation
* Basic encryption for sensitive folders (using age)
* Documentation of conventions
* Examples and templates

_Removed from original Phase 1_:
* Desktop GUI (deferred to "maybe never" given Cowork)
* Database layer (SQLite still useful but secondary)
* Web UI (Cowork is the UI)

_Effort_: Achievable in 3 months by individual developer 
working part-time.

h3. 6.2. New Phase 2 (Months 3-6): MCP Server

_Goal_: InGit operations available to Cowork via MCP.

_Deliverables_:
* {{ingit-mcp-server}} Python package
* 15-20 tools covering core operations
* Open source release
* Integration documentation
* Examples for Cowork Projects

_Effort_: 2-3 months for solo developer.

h3. 6.3. New Phase 3 (Months 6-12): Adoption and Refinement

_Goal_: Real-world usage drives improvements.

_Deliverables_:
* Migration tools (Notion, Obsidian, GitHub)
* Refinements based on user feedback
* Documentation expansion
* Community building

_Effort_: Depends on adoption velocity.

h3. 6.4. Total Reduced Scope

Original plan: 10-16 months to v1.0 with substantial features.
Revised plan: 12 months to mature substrate + MCP integration.

_Removed scope_:
* Desktop GUI: -3 months effort
* Web UI: -2 months effort
* Mobile app: -2 months effort (was implicit)
* Agent infrastructure: -3 months effort (Cowork provides)
* Independent connector ecosystem: -2 months effort

_Net effort reduction_: ~12 months work removed.
_Net timeline_: From 10-16 months to roughly 12 months, with 
much higher quality result.

This is the value of strategic positioning: less work for 
better outcomes.

----



----

_Смотрите также:_
* [[314-6-refined-ingit-scope-with-cowork-in-mind]]
* [[02-cowork-provides]]
* [[03-ingit-provides]]
* [[310-2-what-cowork-provides-that-ingit-doesn-t-need-to-]]




----

_Похожие документы:_
* [[314-6-refined-ingit-scope-with-cowork-in-mind]] (сходство 0.76)
* [[314-6-refined-ingit-scope-with-cowork-in-mind]] (сходство 0.73)
* [[02-cowork-provides]] (сходство 0.23)

