{info:title=Источник}
Сгенерировано из: {{docs/technology-combinations/mega-stacks/03-dsl-ast.md}}
Дата: 2026-04-29
{info}

h1. Mega‑Stack 3.0 — with DSL & AST


{quote}> Источник: MHTML‑снимок {{Комбинирование технологий для новых свойств - Claude}}, секция «КОМБИНАЦИЯ 30: MEGA‑STACK 3.0 with DSL & AST».{quote}
_Проекты:_ Hybrid RAG

----





{quote}Источник: MHTML‑снимок {{Комбинирование технологий для новых свойств - Claude}}, секция «КОМБИНАЦИЯ 30: MEGA‑STACK 3.0 with DSL & AST».{quote}

Финальная архитектура, объединяющая все 30 комбинаций, включая DSL, AST и Pydantic.

{code}
┌─ LEGAL DSL LAYER ───────────────────────────────────┐
│ Domain-specific language for legal operations       │
│ Bescheid analysis, Widerspruch generation, etc.     │
│ Compiles to Python via AST                          │
└─────────────────────────────────────────────────────┘
                        ↓
┌─ PYDANTIC VALIDATION ───────────────────────────────┐
│ BescheidAnalysis, WiderspruchDraft, etc.            │
│ Type-safe legal object models                       │
│ Runtime validation of LLM outputs                   │
└─────────────────────────────────────────────────────┘
                        ↓
┌─ CODE + LEGAL KNOWLEDGE GRAPH ──────────────────────┐
│ ASTChunk: code semantically searchable              │
│ Graph-RAG: precedents linked to implementation      │
│ Hybrid retrieval: legal texts + code + stats        │
└─────────────────────────────────────────────────────┘
                        ↓
┌─ STORAGE & ANALYTICS (unchanged from v2.0) ─────────┐
│ ClickHouse, PostgreSQL 18, CRDT, TimescaleDB        │
└─────────────────────────────────────────────────────┘
{code}

h2. New capabilities

* _Legal DSL_ — non‑programmers write legal automation.
* _AST analysis_ — code becomes part of knowledge base.
* _Pydantic everywhere_ — type‑safe legal workflows.
* _Hybrid RAG_ — legal texts + code + statistics.



----

_Смотрите также:_
* [25-30-extended|docs/technology-combinations/synthesis-tables/25-30-extended.md]
* [04-event-sourcing-consensus|docs/technology-combinations/mega-stacks/04-event-sourcing-consensus.md]
* [02-ultimate-legal-ai|docs/technology-combinations/mega-stacks/02-ultimate-legal-ai.md]
* [30-mega-stack-3-0-with-dsl-ast|docs/technology-combinations/combinations/30-mega-stack-3-0-with-dsl-ast.md]




----

_Похожие документы:_
* [25-30-extended|docs/technology-combinations/synthesis-tables/25-30-extended.md] (сходство 0.34)
* [04-event-sourcing-consensus|docs/technology-combinations/mega-stacks/04-event-sourcing-consensus.md] (сходство 0.31)
* [02-ultimate-legal-ai|docs/technology-combinations/mega-stacks/02-ultimate-legal-ai.md] (сходство 0.30)

