{info:title=Источник}
Сгенерировано из: {{docs/technology-combinations/mega-stacks/04-event-sourcing-consensus.md}}
Дата: 2026-04-29
{info}

h1. Mega‑Stack 4.0 — with Event Sourcing & Consensus

{quote}[!TIP]{quote}
{quote}Документ содержит практические рекомендации и лучшие практики.{quote}




{quote}> Источник: MHTML‑снимок {{Комбинирование технологий для новых свойств - Claude}}, секция «КОМБИНАЦИЯ 35: MEGA‑STACK 4.0».{quote}

----





{quote}Источник: MHTML‑снимок {{Комбинирование технологий для новых свойств - Claude}}, секция «КОМБИНАЦИЯ 35: MEGA‑STACK 4.0».{quote}

Полная архитектура, объединяющая все 35 комбинаций.

{code}
┌─ DISTRIBUTED COORDINATION ──────────────────────────┐
│ Raft: multi-agent cluster coordination              │
│ Paxos: geo-replicated event store                   │
│ Leader election, log replication, consensus         │
└──────────────────────────────────────────────────────┘
                        ↓
┌─ EVENT SOURCING LAYER ──────────────────────────────┐
│ Immutable event log (all legal actions)             │
│ Time-travel queries (replay to any date)            │
│ Audit trail (complete history)                      │
└──────────────────────────────────────────────────────┘
                        ↓
┌─ CQRS (Command/Query Separation) ───────────────────┐
│ Write Model: Commands → Events → Kafka              │
│ Read Models (multiple projections):                 │
│   - PostgreSQL 18 async (current state, OLTP)       │
│   - ClickHouse (analytics, OLAP, 100M rows/sec)     │
│   - Elasticsearch (full-text search)                │
│   - Graph DB (precedent links)                      │
└──────────────────────────────────────────────────────┘
                        ↓
┌─ STORAGE & ANALYTICS (from v3.0) ───────────────────┐
│ Event Store: Kafka + ClickHouse                     │
│ CRDT: P2P sync, offline-capable                     │
│ TimescaleDB: time-series queries                    │
└──────────────────────────────────────────────────────┘
                        ↓
┌─ AGENT ORCHESTRATION (from v2.0) ───────────────────┐
│ Raft cluster: distributed agents                    │
│ Sequential + Adversarial + Router                   │
│ OpenTelemetry: distributed tracing                  │
└──────────────────────────────────────────────────────┘
{code}

h2. New capabilities

* _Event Sourcing_ — complete audit trail, time‑travel queries.
* _CQRS_ — multiple read models from single event stream.
* _Consensus_ — Raft (multi‑agent) + Paxos (geo‑replication).
* _Fault tolerance_ — no single point of failure.

h2. Performance

* Event ingestion: 500k events/sec (Kafka)
* Analytics: <500 ms on 50M events (ClickHouse)
* Consensus: <100 ms leader election (Raft)
* Replication: <1 sec cross‑datacenter (Paxos)



----

_Смотрите также:_
* [35-mega-stack-4-0-with-event-sourcing-consensus|docs/technology-combinations/combinations/35-mega-stack-4-0-with-event-sourcing-consensus.md]
* [31-35-final|docs/technology-combinations/synthesis-tables/31-35-final.md]
* [32-consensus-based-multi-agent-coordination|docs/technology-combinations/combinations/32-consensus-based-multi-agent-coordination.md]
* [03-dsl-ast|docs/technology-combinations/mega-stacks/03-dsl-ast.md]




----

_Похожие документы:_
* [35-mega-stack-4-0-with-event-sourcing-consensus|docs/technology-combinations/combinations/35-mega-stack-4-0-with-event-sourcing-consensus.md] (сходство 0.41)
* [31-35-final|docs/technology-combinations/synthesis-tables/31-35-final.md] (сходство 0.40)
* [32-consensus-based-multi-agent-coordination|docs/technology-combinations/combinations/32-consensus-based-multi-agent-coordination.md] (сходство 0.33)

